Login
Join TechCrunch+
Searchsearch
Disrupt
Startups
Videos
Audio
Newsletters
TechCrunch+
EC-1s
Advertise
Events
More
Samsung to invest $205B in semiconductor, biopharma and telco units by 2023, creating 40,000 jobs
Kate Park@kateparknews / 4:38 PM GMT+6•August 24, 2021
comment Comment
cameraImage Credits: georgeclerk
(opens in a new window)
/ Getty Images
Samsung Group, South Korea’s tech giant, announced on Tuesday that it will invest $205 billion (240 trillion won) in their semiconductor, biopharmaceuticals and telecommunications units over the next three years to enhance its global presence and lead in new industries such as next-generation telecommunication and robotics.
The investment will be led by Samsung affiliates including Samsung Electronics and Samsung Biologics. It also unveiled a mergers and acquisitions plan to fortify its technology and market leadership.
Setting aside $154.3 billion (180 trillion won) for home ground, Samsung expects to create 40,000 new jobs by 2023 through the investment.
This announcement comes days after Samsung Electronics vice chairman Jay Y. Lee was released on parole on 13 August right before South Korea’s Liberation Day. People speculated Samsung would be able to move forward with major investments once he was freed from prison, according to local media reports.
Samsung’s latest investment will be used for semiconductors, biopharmaceuticals and the next-generation telco units, according to the company’s statement.
Samsung Electronics plans to develop advanced process technology and expand the business with artificial intelligence (AI) and data centers for its system semiconductors while it will focus on up-to-date technology such as EUV-based sub14-nanometer DRAM and over 200-layer V-NAND products for the memory business. Samsung had announced in May the company will invest $151 billion in its logic chip and foundry sector, to be the top logic chip maker, by 2030.
Samsung Biologics and Samsung Bioepis plan to establish two new plants, in addition to a fourth factory that is under construction, for expanding the contract development manufacturing organization (CDMO) business, the statement said.
South Korea’s largest conglomerate also will support its ongoing R&D in new technologies and emerging application in areas such as AI and robotics along with the next generation OLED, quantum-dot display and high-energy density batteries development.
More TechCrunch
Samsung to invest $205B in semiconductor, biopharma and telco units by 2023, creating 40,000 jobs – TechCrunch
Let's Encrypt's root certificate has expired, and it might break your devices
South Korean ISP SK Broadband counterclaims against Netflix for bandwidth usage fees
Ben Rubin explains why the Web3 era of social media will help everybody get paid
Sign up for Newsletters
See all newsletters
(opens in a new window)
Daily
Week in Review
Startups Weekly
Event Updates
Advertising Updates
TechCrunch+ Announcements
TechCrunch+ Events
TechCrunch+ Roundup
Email
Subscribe
facebook
(opens in a new window)
twitter
(opens in a new window)
linkedin
(opens in a new window)
mail
(opens in a new window)
Copy Share Link
Copy
Tags
Asia
Enterprise
Robotics
TC
Samsung
Cruise, Waymo get OK to launch robotaxi service in San Francisco
Rebecca Bellan
2:47 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
The California Department of Motor Vehicles gave General Motors-backed Cruise and Alphabet-owned Waymo the green light to start charging for autonomous services offered to the public. On Thursday, ...
Growth marketing is not a magic trick, says Ellen Jantsch of Tuff
Anna Heim
2:33 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
Ellen Jantsch, founder of growth marketing agency Tuff, makes it clear: There’s no one-size-fits-all when it comes to growth.
Who needs a BaaS partner, anyway?
Ryan Lawler
2:31 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
Banking as a service will change not just the way financial services apps are built and embedded into new platforms, but also the way in which consumers and businesses alike interact with their fin...
Featured Article
Aurora shines spotlight on autonomous truck tech, strategy ahead of SPAC merger
On Interstate 45 in Texas, a billboard with “Aurora” emblazoned at the top in giant w...
Kirsten Korosec
1:56 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
TikTok starts flirting with NFTs
Lucas Matney
1:33 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
The NFT space has had quite the year, and while it can be difficult to separate the billions of dollars in crypto speculation from the potential infrastructure shifts, plenty of mainstream tech com...
Clubhouse adds clips, replays for asynchronous listening, better search and spatial audio for Android
Amanda Silberling
1:00 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
Clubhouse announced today that it is unveiling four new features: Clips, Replay, Universal Search and spatial audio for Android (which already exists on iOS). All of these features will launch toda...
South Korean ISP SK Broadband counterclaims against Netflix for bandwidth usage fees
Kate Park
1:00 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
South Korean internet service provider SK Broadband, a subsidiary of South Korean telco company SK Telecom, has filed a counterclaim against Netflix to demand payment for the bandwidth the streamin...
Facebook grilled in Senate hearing over teen mental health
Amanda Silberling
12:55 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
Last night, Facebook published two annotated slide decks in an attempt to contextualize the documents that The Wall Street Journal published this month, which reported evidence that the company is ...
Current and former employees raise major safety concerns, allegations of sexual harassment at Blue Origin
Aria Alamalhodaei
12:07 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
Jeff Bezos just can’t get away from labor issues. The beleaguered billionaire, who has faced repeated and persistent criticism over working conditions at the company he formerly led, Amazon, is now...
TikTok’s new ad products invite users to interact with taps, swipes, likes and more
Sarah Perez
12:00 AM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
TikTok this week presented its new plan to ramp up advertiser investment in its video platform with the expansion of e-commerce, a new promise of “brand safety” and the launch of severa...
These two former corporate VCs just raised $110 million for their own fund
Connie Loizos
11:27 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
All kinds of teams are raising venture funds these days, so don’t be surprised to see more investors from corporate venture firms decide to create their own outfits, too. They might look to C...
Scaling across Series A to C
Arthur Nobel
10:44 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
There is a lot of great content on the start-up phase, but there is little available on how founders can grow a company from $1 million to $25 million in annual revenues.
Arctic Wolf acquires ‘Hollywood-style’ cybersecurity training startup Habitu8
Carly Page
10:39 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
Arctic Wolf, a managed cybersecurity company that offers a “security operations-as-a-concierge” service, has acquired Habitu8, a security training and awareness content platform. Terms of the deal ...
TC Sessions: SaaS 2021
48 hours left to save $100 on passes to TC Sessions: SaaS 2021
Alexandra Ames
10:23 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
If you’re a savant in the world of SaaS, pay close attention; you have just 48 hours left to save $100 on the price of admission to TC Sessions: SaaS 2021. The early-bird price expires on October 1...
Kevin Ryan’s AlleyCorp is giving these physicians $100 million to invest in healthcare
Connie Loizos
10:18 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
Kevin Ryan — the New York-based investor and entrepreneur who first rose to prominence as CEO of the early online ad business DoubleClick — could have launched or joined a traditional v...
Mobile gaming company Voodoo acquires Beach Bum
Romain Dillet
10:04 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
French startup Voodoo has made a significant acquisition in the casual mobile gaming market. The company is acquiring Beach Bum, a game studio based in Israel and specialized in tabletop and card g...
Sony buys remake and remaster studio Bluepoint Games
Igor Bonifacic
10:04 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
Sony has acquired Bluepoint Games, the Austin-based studio best known for remaking Demon’s Souls and Shadow of the Colossus. Financial terms of the deal haven’t been disclosed.
Forta launches with $23M to bring better security to smart contracts
Alex Wilhelm
10:00 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
Blockchain cybersecurity startup OpenZeppelin this morning announced a $23 million investment in Forta, a security service aimed at smart contracts. Andreessen Horowitz led the round, which OpenZep...
Sharing mobility data without compromising privacy
Chelsey Colbert
9:32 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
Innovative mobility options provide cities with opportunities to solve the last-mile transportation problem, and the data from these services has a range of uses, but there are valid privacy concer...
Microsoft’s Saqib Shaikh, lead on Seeing AI, is returning to Sight Tech Global, Dec. 1-2
Ned Desmond
9:15 PM GMT+6•September 30, 2021
At last year’s inaugural Sight Tech Global event, a virtual event dedicated to applications of AI and related tech to accessibility for people who are blind, one of the most popular sessions ...
About
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
TechCrunch+ Terms
Code of Conduct
International
Japan
FacebookFacebook
(opens in a new window)
TwitterTwitter
(opens in a new window)
YouTubeYouTube
(opens in a new window)
InstagramInstagram
(opens in a new window)
LinkedInLinkedIn
(opens in a new window)
© 2013-2021 Verizon Media.All rights reserved.Powered by WordPress VIP
(opens in a new window)
.