NEWS
WEATHER
CORONAVIRUS
7 ON YOUR SIDE
CHIME IN
WATCH
78
House lawmakers pressed to pass bill addressing semiconductor shortage amid price spikes
by CHRISTOPHER WHITE | Sinclair Broadcast Group Tuesday, July 27th 2021
4
VIEW ALL PHOTOS
SINDELFINGEN, GERMANY - SEPTEMBER 02: Car bodies of the new S-Class Mercedes-Benz passenger car queue at the new "Factory 56" assembly line at the Mercedes-Benz manufacturing plant on September 2, 2020 in Sindelfingen, Germany. (Photo by Lennart Preiss/Getty Images)
WASHINGTON (SBG) — Several trade groups and unions are prodding Congress to act more quickly to bolster semiconductor manufacturing in the U.S. through legislation designed to better compete with China on such technology.
A shortage of semiconductors across the country is roiling the automotive industry and causing prices of new and used cars to skyrocket, as well as threatening to prolong inflationary pressures on the economy. President Joe Biden argues higher prices are temporary and are due mostly to hiccups in U.S. supply chains.
The Federal Reserve and Biden's fellow Democrats are mirroring the president's argument.
"I think we're experiencing a big uptick in inflation. Bigger than many expected. Bigger than certainly than I expected, and we're trying to understand whether it's something that will pass through quickly or, in fact, we need to act," Federal Reserve Chairman Jerome Powell said at a congressional hearing earlier this month.
WASHINGTON, DC - JUNE 22: Federal Reserve Board Chairman Jerome Powell testifies at a House Coronavirus Subcommittee hearing on the Federal Reserves response to the coronavirus pandemic on Capitol Hill June 22, 2021 in Washington, DC. (Photo by Graeme Jennings-Pool/Getty Images)
But the semiconductor shortage is not going anywhere anytime soon, according to some experts.
Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger is one such expert. He believes the global semiconductor shortage could last until 2023, potentially keeping prices sky high on many of the products Americans depend on every day.
We have a long way to go yet,” he said. “It just takes a long time to build [manufacturing] capacity,” Gelsinger told The Wall Street Journal on July 22.
Car manufacturers General Motors and Toyota temporarily closed up some shops due to the limited chip supply, CNN reported Thursday.
And now the Semiconductor Industry Association is calling on lawmakers to speed up legislation to tackled the problem.
Strengthening the U.S. position in semiconductor research, design, and manufacturing is a national priority,” the industry group wrote in a letter to House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif.
The letter was also addressed to Senate Majority Leader Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., and other congressional leaders.
In this April 21, 2021, photo, House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, D-Calif., joins Del. Eleanor Holmes-Norton, D-D.C., left, at a news conference ahead of the House vote on H.R. 51, the Washington, DC Admission Act, on Capitol Hill in Washington. (AP Photo/J. Scott Applewhite)
While the governments of our global competitors have invested heavily to attract new semiconductor manufacturing and research facilities, the absence of comparable U.S. incentives has made our country less competitive and America’s share of global semiconductor manufacturing has steadily declined as a result,” the letter adds.
The group is urging lawmakers to finance the Chips Act, which became law earlier this year and provides grants and incentives for semiconductor manufacturers to build facilities. That law was never financed, according to Bloomberg.
The biggest reason for the shortage is the pandemic and the accompanying lockdowns, which brought a sudden sharp growth in demand for electronics as Americans began working from home at higher rates.
That uptick in demand left companies scrambling, while other factors, such as restrictions the U.S. government placed on Chinese semiconductor manufacturers, are contributing to the limited supply.
Semiconductor manufacturers are simply unable to keep up with growing demands.
The Senate passed legislation earlier this year dedicating $52 billion to the Chips Act initiative through part of the U.S. Innovation and Competition Act, which is supposed to help the country better compete with the likes of China on a range of issues.
The House is in the process of crafting companion legislation, but industry associations say Congress is not moving fast enough. Some Republicans believe the effort is getting bogged down by Democrats who are trying to make it about climate change.
House Foreign Affairs Committee Chairman Gregory Meeks, D-N.Y., introduced the House version earlier this month, which, among other things, calls for billions of dollars to fight climate change, something the Senate bill doesn't include.
BEIJING, CHINA - MARCH 1: (CHINA OUT) Security guard walk past the Chinese national flag at the Military Museum of Chinese People's Revolution on March 1, 2008 in Beijing, China. (Photo by China Photos/Getty Images)
Republicans pounced.
Unfortunately, Democrats passed up the opportunity to work on a meaningful, bipartisan legislation to counter the threats of the Chinese Communist Party and instead made it another green energy bill,” Rep. Michael McCaul, R-TX, told The Washington Post on July 1.
“The Eagle Act is a climate bill masquerading as a foreign policy bill and doesn’t take the generational threat posed by the CCP seriously,” McCaul added.
The bill includes authorization of $8 billion for the United Nations Green Climate Fund.
Democrats believe these House provisions do help the U.S. compete with China for semiconductor manufacturing, among other types of production.
“There’s a lot that’s bipartisan in the House bill that should and will end up in whatever compromise we strike on this at the end of the process,” Rep. Tom Malinowski, D-N.J., told The Washington Post earlier this month.
TRENDING
Tractor trailer carrying cinder blocks overturns on I-40; blocks all lanes of traffic
California woman finds 4.38-carat yellow diamond at Crater of Diamonds State Park
Boy shot, wounded at Memphis school; juvenile detained
Arkansas bill creates antibody exemption for vaccine mandate
Little Rock director hopeful Park Plaza will not remain empty after foreclosure
STAY CONNECTED
Like Us
Follow Us
NEWSLETTER SIGN UP
© 2021 Sinclair Broadcast Group, Inc.
TermsEEOFCCFCCPrivacy PolicyCookie PolicyCookie Preferences
NEWS IN PHOTOS: "Nation & World"
Polls suggest some risks for Dems as they advance $3.5 trillion agenda
Tour of Wisconsin Army post reveals thankful, bored Afghans
Senators compare Facebook to Big Tobacco, say Instagram knowingly harms teens
Inflation tops voters' economic concerns as Fed weighs policy changes
Loading ...