Switch site
Exclusives
Autos
Alt. Transport
Autonomy
Energy
Tesla Shop
More social networks
Toggle dark mode
Search
Search
Toggle search
9TO5MAC
9TO5GOOGLE
9TO5TOYS
DRONEDJ
SPACE EXPLORED
SEPTEMBER 28
Tesla plans to add ~1,000 new Full Self-Driving Beta testers per day based on ‘safety score’
Fred Lambert
- Sep. 28th 2021 3:01 am PT
@FredericLambert
219 Comments
Facebook
Twitter
Pinterest
LinkedIn
Reddit
Elon Musk announced that Tesla plans to start adding ~1,000 new Full Self-Driving Beta testers per day based on their “safety score” starting next week.
Tesla’s plan for a “wider release” of its Full Self-Driving Beta, which was first supposed to come six months ago, has changed a lot in the last week.
It went from a simple “download button” that would have allowed people who bought the Full Self-Driving package to download the latest software to now a “request button” that starts a period of judging your driving based on some parameters and adds you to a queue to maybe get the new software.
As we previously reported, there are also some problems with Tesla’s “safety score” as it penalizes some owners for no fault of their own.
Now CEO Elon Musk clarified the plan for the rollout based on safety scores in a series of tweets last night:
“Wow, lot of interest in FSD beta! Plan is to roll out version 10.2 midnight Friday, then on-ramp ~1000 owners/day, prioritized by safety rating. First few days probably 100/100, then 99, 98, etc.”
In a follow-up tweet, Musk corrected that the v10.2 release will be “a week from Friday,” which is apparently when Tesla will start on-boarding more beta testers.
With an estimated 2,000 people in the early access program, Tesla would be doubling the fleet of cars with access to the Full Self-Driving Beta after just two days.
However, as a reminder, while the package is called “Full Self-Driving” (FSD) and comes with the promise of eventually enabling that capability, it currently doesn’t provide a full self-driving system.
Tesla FSD Beta enables Tesla vehicles to virtually drive themselves both on highways and city streets by simply entering a location in the navigation system, but it is still considered a level 2 driver assist since it requires driver supervision at all times. The driver remains responsible for the vehicle, and needs to keep their hands on the steering wheel and be ready to take control.
FTC: We use income earning auto affiliate links. More.
You’re reading Electrek— experts who break news about Tesla, electric vehicles, and green energy, day after day. Be sure to check out our homepage for all the latest news, and follow Electrek on Twitter, Facebook, and LinkedIn to stay in the loop. Don’t know where to start? Check out our YouTube channel for the latest reviews.
Subscribe to Electrek on YouTube for exclusive videos and subscribe to the podcast.
Guides
Tesla
Tesla is a transportation and energy company. It sells vehicles under its 'Tesla Motors' division and stationary battery pack for home, commercial and utility-scale projects under its 'Tesla Energy' division.
Tesla Full self-Driving
About the Author
Fred Lambert @FredericLambert
Fred is the Editor in Chief and Main Writer at Electrek.
You can send tips on Twitter (DMs open) or via email: fred@9to5mac.com
Through Zalkon.com, you can check out Fred’s portfolio and get monthly green stock investment ideas.
Fred Lambert's favorite gear
Zalkon Green Stock Ideas
Get interesting investment ideas by Fred Lambert
ChargePoint Home charger
ChargePoint Home WiFi Enabled Electric Vehicle (EV) Charger
Rivian R1T first drive
Rolls-Royce unveils first electric car
Drive Electric Week starts Saturday Sept. 25
Is this the lightest e-bike in the world?