HOME
MAIL
NEWS
FINANCE
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFE
SHOPPING
YAHOO PLUS
MORE...
Download the Yahoo News app
Yahoo News
Sign in
Mail
News
US
Politics
World
COVID-19
Climate Change
Originals
Health
Science
Podcasts
Contact Us
Videos
Close this content
Semiconductor shortage that has hobbled manufacturing worldwide is getting worse
microchip integrated on motherboard
Jeanne Whalen, (c) 2021, The Washington Post
Fri, September 24, 2021, 4:37 AM·6 min read
In this article:
Gina Raimondo
American politician
The global semiconductor shortage that has paralyzed automakers for nearly a year shows signs of worsening, as new coronavirus infections halt chip assembly lines in Southeast Asia, forcing more car companies and electronics manufacturers to suspend production.
A wave of delta-variant cases in Malaysia, Vietnam and the Philippines is causing production delays at factories that cut and package semiconductors, creating new bottlenecks on top of those caused by soaring demand for chips.
Subscribe to The Post Most newsletter for the most important and interesting stories from The Washington Post.
Underscoring that the problem has defied easy solutions, the White House on Thursday held its second summit in five months with semiconductor manufacturers and buyers, in part to gain more clarity on the scope of the crisis, senior administration officials said.
Attendees included senior executives from Intel, General Motors, Ford, Apple, Microsoft, Samsung and two dozen other companies, as well as Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and National Economic Council Director Brian Deese.
Frustration has mounted on all sides. Automakers want semiconductor companies to crank out more chips for cars. Smartphone companies do not want their semiconductors diverted to automakers. Chip manufacturers say the auto industry shot itself in the foot by canceling semiconductor orders after the covid crisis hit. They are also impatient for Congress to approve $52 billion in federal subsidies to boost domestic semiconductor manufacturing. That measure, supported by the White House, has cleared the Senate but not the House.
The Biden administration, meanwhile, says that while it can play a supporting role, it expects the private sector to take the lead in sorting out the crisis.
"It's on industry to come up with the solutions here and to identify some of the path forward," one of the administration officials said Wednesday, speaking on the condition of anonymity to preview Thursday's meeting.
Story continues
Our goal is to create a safe and engaging place for users to connect over interests and passions. In order to improve our community experience, we are temporarily suspending article commenting
Recommended Stories
Business Insider
United says 273 employees reported they were vaccinated after the company said they would be fired due to the company's strict vaccine mandate
United said Thursday that nearly half of its unvaccinated workers have provided proof of inoculation since facing termination due to the strict vaccination policy.
2h ago
The Telegraph
Beijing says blackouts will not be tolerated as power shortages hit factories
Beijing has warned China's state-backed energy firms that blackouts will not be tolerated this winter as power shortages triggered the first slide in manufacturing activity since the pandemic struck.
11h ago
Ad
•
Novelodge
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Brilliant Car Cleaning Hacks Local Dealers Wish You Didn’t Know
Associated Press
Production begins at new Alabama auto plant; hiring ongoing
Production has begun at a new auto plant in north Alabama and the companies running the facility continue to hire workers at a brisk pace. Work on the first 2022 Corolla Cross vehicles began with the press of a button at the Mazda Toyota Manufacturing, a joint venture between Mazda Motor Corp. and Toyota Motor Corp. In 2018, the Japanese automakers selected Huntsville, Alabama, for the mammoth facility that will eventually have the capability to produce up to 300,000 vehicles per year, split evenly between Mazda and Toyota.
5h ago
Bloomberg
World Food Costs at Risk of Soaring as China Faces Tough Harvest
(Bloomberg) -- China is set for a difficult harvest season as a severe energy crunch hurts the outlook for booming production, a development that risks triggering a renewed surge in world agriculture and food prices. Most Read from BloombergThe Country That Makes Breakfast for the World Is Plagued by Fire, Frost and DroughtThe Unstoppable Appeal of Highway ExpansionHSBC Bets Big on China as Pressure Mounts in LondonHow Los Angeles Became the City of DingbatsWhy the Gaza Strip May Be the City of
2d ago
Reuters
Explainer-What is behind China's power crunch?
China is in the grip of a power crunch as coal supply shortages combined with strong power demand from manufacturers, industry and households push coal prices to record highs and trigger widespread curbs on usage. Indeed, China has focused on cutting power consumption, not coal output. Instead, China's heavily controlled power pricing system prevents its generators from passing on their soaring coal costs to consumers, leaving them with no choice but to suffer losses or reduce output.
2d ago
Associated Press
From paints to plastics, a chemical shortage ignites prices
In an economy upended by the coronavirus, shortages and price spikes have hit everything from lumber to computer chips. Not even toilet paper escaped. Now, they're cutting into one of the humblest yet most vital links in the global manufacturing supply chain: The plastic pellets that go into a vast universe of products ranging from cereal bags to medical devices, automotive interiors to bicycle helmets.
1d ago
American City Business Journals
Expect these ripple effects that Ford Motor Co.'s $11.4 billion investment in West TN and Kentucky will have in our backyard
The work in West Tennessee and Kentucky will mean new opportunities — and more competition — for many businesses in Greater Nashville. "It's going to have an impact statewide, because I don't know that you can find 6,000 workers that easily, anywhere."
1d ago
Quartz
This pair of billionaire brothers is gaining on Mukesh Ambani, India’s richest man
India has a new pair of billionaire brothers. For the first time ever, both Adani brothers—Gautam and Vinod Shantilal—have been featured in the top 10 of the IIFL Wealth Hurun India Rich List 2021. With 505,900 crore rupees ($76 billion), Gautam Adani became the second richest Indian billionaire, nearly quadrupling his wealth from Rs140,200 crore during the pandemic, while his elder brother Vinod Shantilal Adani grabbed eighth spot on the list, with his wealth tripling to Rs131,600 crore.
8h ago
Bloomberg
An Obscure Chinese Mining Law Is Hobbling Global Energy Security
(Bloomberg) -- China’s current energy crisis can be traced back in part to a legal amendment targeting miners that garnered little notice when it went into effect in March.Article 134 in China’s criminal law elevated penalties for a series of violations from fines to possible jail time in response to an increase in mining-related accidents. However, that law led to a newfound hesitancy among miners to boost production and intensified a supply deficit that could not come at a worse time for Presi
1d ago
USA TODAY
GM's Barra looks to partner with chip makers in order to end shortage
The global chip shortage forced GM to look beyond the short-term"fix of getting enough for the next week in favor of more permanent solutions.
21h ago
American City Business Journals
Shareholders OK Denver oil company's $17B merger that will move HQ to Houston
The industry's odd couple is expected to shack up Oct. 1, but what they'll be called remains a mystery.
7h ago
Reuters
Taiwan sees upside from China power curbs if orders shift
TAIPEI (Reuters) -Taiwan may benefit from orders being shifted to the island if China's power curbs disrupt the country's exports, Taiwan Central Bank Governor Yang Chin-long said on Thursday. The world's second-largest economy is grappling with power cuts and electricity rationing after a collision of tight coal supplies, tougher emissions standards and strong manufacturing demand has pushed the price of coal, the biggest source of China's electricity, to eye-watering records. Yang, taking lawmaker questions in parliament, said that if China's power crunch caused its exports to do badly, manufacturers could shift orders to the island.
20h ago
GOBankingRates
Comparing and Contrasting the FIRE Movement With ‘Lying Flat’
Anyone looking to break the chains of 9-to-5 drone life will find no shortage of inspiration online -- tiny homes, side gigs, you name it. Millions of people across the world searching for meaning and...
8h ago
Bloomberg
Record Costs Slam U.S. Drillers as Oil Output Growth Slows
(Bloomberg) -- America’s oil producers are boosting output at a slower place as record costs hammer the shale patch, according to a survey of industry executives.Most Read from BloombergThe Country That Makes Breakfast for the World Is Plagued by Fire, Frost and DroughtThe Unstoppable Appeal of Highway ExpansionHSBC Bets Big on China as Pressure Mounts in LondonHow Los Angeles Became the City of DingbatsWhy the Gaza Strip May Be the City of the FutureOut of 47 responding companies that supply pr
1d ago
Washington Examiner
Arizona could be ground zero in U.S. microchip self-reliance
Arizona’s technology sector will play a prominent role in American manufacturing’s latest plan to reclaim its title as the world’s leader in semiconductors from Asia.
23h ago
Reuters
Western airplane maintenance providers rush to sign Chinese contracts
Western aircraft maintenance, repair and overhaul providers (MROs) signed a flurry of new contracts with Chinese customers and joint-venture partners at the country's biggest air show this week to strengthen their foothold in the lucrative market. The quick rebound in traffic in China's domestic aviation market to pre-COVID levels, coupled with large declines in other parts of the world, has made China even more important to providers trying to minimise pandemic-driven revenue hits. "China is key to the future of aerospace because the centre of gravity of passenger traffic is moving east," Kailash Krishnaswamy, general manager at Spirit AeroSystems China, said on the sidelines of Airshow China in Zhuhai after signing a 10-year repair contract with cargo carrier SF Airlines.
20h ago
Reuters
United Airlines cuts number of workers facing termination over vaccine noncompliance
United Airlines on Thursday trimmed the number of employees who are facing termination for defying the company's COVID-19 vaccine mandate. The Chicago-based carrier said only 320 U.S.-based staff are now not in compliance with its COVID-19 vaccination policy, marking a 46% drop in the past two days. Excluding those who have sought an exemption, United said 99.5% of U.S.-based employees now have been vaccinated against COVID-19.
4h ago
Architectural Digest
Rolls-Royce Finally Goes Fully Electric With a Striking New Car
The car, which will be known as the Spectre, is expected to be delivered to its first customers in late 2023
1d ago
Autoblog
Slew of Ford recalls affect more than a million vehicles
Ford is closing out September with the sad task of alerting owners to five different recalls, two of them camera related. The first is a safety compliance recall affecting 620,246 units of 12 models from the 2020 model year: Edge, Escape, Expedition, Explorer, F-150 and Super Duty, Mustang, Ranger, and Transit, plus the Lincoln Corsair, MKX, and Nautilus. On these vehicles, the circuit board in the rearview camera suffers from insufficient electrical conductivity.
9h ago
Axios
Activision Blizzard settlement is a "slap in the face," workers say
A group of tech and gaming workers have slammed Activision Blizzard's planned settlement with the U.S. Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, saying an $18 million compensation fund for employees who were harassed or discriminated against is not enough.Why it matters: The statement from the Campaign to Organize Digital Employees (CODE) came a day after Activision announced its plans in a press release.Stay on top of the latest market trends and economic insights with Axios Markets. Subscribe f
1d ago
TRENDING
Elon Musk says Tesla owners 'don't seem to listen to me' because they ignore an NDA and share a lot of videos of the company's Full-Self-Driving tech
Business Insider·2 min read
Police say they detained an American Airlines passenger who walked on the wing of a plane after it landed in Miami
INSIDER·1 min read
Merck says research shows its COVID-19 pill works against variants
Reuters·2 min read
Hurricane Sam to kick up 'life threatening' surf along East Coast this weekend
USA TODAY·2 min read
A principal at a Philadelphia elementary school ordered pizza for 400 students after food-services staff didn't show up, with the school district citing a staff shortage
Business Insider·3 min read
POPULAR
Chip shortage spurs new wave of car plant closures in Germany
AFP
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Ad
•
Novelodge
Global chip shortage slows UK car production
Yahoo Finance UK
The Biden administration is preparing for a historic expansion of a key department to address the semiconductor shortage
Fortune
Grocery shortage: What's the cause?
WISN - Milwaukee Videos
Shortages, shipping, shutdowns hit Asian factory output
Associated Press
Mass Global Vehicle Shortage Hits 7.7 Million, Doubling Estimates — Consumers To Pay $90 Billion in Higher Costs
GOBankingRates
When Will the Chip Shortage End? Experts Weigh In
GOBankingRates
Taiwan, on chip information request, says respects US laws
Reuters
CarMax Is Far From Maxing Out
The Wall Street Journal
Shortage problem: What's the UK running low on and why?
BBC
ASML to Ride Decade-Long Sales Boom After Chip Supply Crunch
Bloomberg
Chart shows how fuel prices have soared in the past year
Yahoo News UK
Teacher shortages at New Mexico schools
KOAT - Albuquerque Videos