Skip to main content
Advertisement
View all journals
Search
My Account
Explore content
About the journal
Publish with us
Subscribe
Sign up for alerts
RSS feed
nature book reviews article
BOOK REVIEW
11 May 2021
From spoons to semiconductors — we are what we make
Through a tour of ten materials, a scientist explores knowing through doing.
Anna Novitzky
Fired up: Anna Ploszajski gets to grips with the art of glass-making in her quest to fuse scientific theory and creative practice.Credit: Charlie Murphy
Handmade: A Scientist’s Search for Meaning through Making Anna Ploszajski Bloomsbury (2021)
When materials scientist Anna Ploszajski took up science communication, she found that the more she discussed her research with others, the less she could answer their questions. She knew all about the molecular interactions that give materials their strength, flexibility or hardness, but she couldn’t tell her friends and family about the best alternative to plastic, or why phone screens are made from glass even though it’s prone to smashing. To address these gaps in her knowledge, she got hands-on, exploring how artisans interact with substances that she knew only in theory.
In Handmade, Ploszajski investigates ten materials. She starts with the classic categories of her field: glass, plastic, metals such as steel and brass, and ceramics. She then moves on to materials common in making and crafts, and less often considered in the laboratory: sugar, wool, wood, paper and stone. She tries glass-blowing, pottery, steel casting, knitting and spoon carving; learns about plastic art, trumpet-making and stonemasonry; and gains a holistic perspective on objects to which she had never given a second thought. The efforts bring an understanding of the properties and cultural impact of materials that helps her to communicate more clearly. As a chemist-turned-wordsmith, and a keen dabbler in crafts from knitting to origami, I related deeply to her search.
Medicine: Discovery through doing
Ploszajski intersperses her experiences with the materials-science view of these media, from the amorphous molecular structure of glass to the chemical reactions between calcium minerals, moisture and carbon dioxide that give lime mortar its remarkable self-healing properties. She describes the history of each material’s use, with snippets of tradition and archaeology from around the globe — ranging from 3,000-year-old ancient Egyptian knitted socks to wind-operated furnaces in Iron Age Sri Lanka. And she offers anecdotes about what the materials have meant to her: her immigrant grandfather’s plastics-manufacturing business; the sugary snacks that got her through a swim across the English Channel; how paper, relaying thoughts and stories written by lesbians of centuries past, helped her to grasp her own sexuality. The result is fascinating and affecting.
Real-world impact
Under ‘Steel’, Ploszajski describes how, as an undergraduate, she won a place on a team building a vehicle to tackle a land-speed record. She worked out that cogs in the car’s engine were breaking under stress owing to carbon atoms clumping inside the metal. But, lacking the confidence to share her ideas with the older, male mechanics, she was unable to apply the understanding in a practical way that could help the team to reach its goal.
This disconnect between doing good science and presenting it in the way that people need has become all too obvious during the COVID-19 pandemic. Researchers can understand the mechanisms of infection, produce effective vaccines and report compelling epidemiological data. Yet without an appreciation of why people cannot or will not take vaccines, the findings might not help people.
Spoons that Ploszajski carved as she explored the medium of wood.Credit: Anna Ploszajski
Ploszajski’s experiences also shine light on how people shape research. Scientists aim for objectivity, but often forget that their experiences and culture affect every aspect of their work. Just as the grain of a piece of wood dictates the shape of the spoon that Ploszajski carves, the structure of a society dictates the research questions that scholars pursue. This isn’t necessarily a bad thing; trouble arrives when researchers forget that their approaches are shaped by their circumstances. Similarly, Ploszajski, a trumpet player since childhood, learns with surprise that the instruments are not always made of brass; some players prefer the sound produced by silver or copper. This put me in mind of how astronomy is usually considered a visual science — but some blind astronomers have pioneered investigating the cosmos through sound.
I did wish for more from Ploszajski’s accounts. Directed mainly at lay readers, the book’s scientific explanations stopped just as I began to be intrigued. And she only scratches the surface of the history, cultural connotations and potential uses of each material. I almost wished for a volume based on each chapter, an encyclopedia of science and craft.
It’s enlightening to reflect on how our physical experience affects our thoughts. And, as Ploszajski points out, it’s unhealthy to compartmentalize: each can improve the other. As a crafter, I well understand the comfort Ploszajski finds in creation. There’s something magical about spinning disparate, fragile fibres into warm, strong yarn, or coaxing solid cheese curds out of liquid milk. After a day of thought and theory, it’s delightful to hold something real in my hand and say: I made this.
Nature 593, 186-187 (2021)
doi: https://doi.org/10.1038/d41586-021-01247-w
Latest on:
Materials science
Chemistry
Communication
Heat management with a twist in layered materials
NEWS & VIEWS 29 SEP 21
Electron crystals come under the microscope
NEWS & VIEWS 29 SEP 21
The role of charge recombination to triplet excitons in organic solar cells
ARTICLE 29 SEP 21
Jobs
Open rank faculty positions (Assistant, Associate, and Full Professor) – Scripps Florida
The Scripps Research Institute (TSRI) - Scripps Florida
Jupiter, FL, United States
Postdoctoral Associate
State University of New York at Stony Brook (SUNY Stony Brook)
Stony Brook, NY, United States
Research Associate - Cell Culture
Baylor College of Medicine (BCM)
Houston, TX, United States
Research Associate - Electrophysiology
Baylor College of Medicine (BCM)
Houston, TX, United States
Related Articles
Discovery through doing
Science in hand: how art and craft can boost reproducibility
Stewpots and string: how scientists make do
Share the repair
The artist as astronaut
Subjects
Materials science Chemistry Communication
Sign up to Nature Briefing
An essential round-up of science news, opinion and analysis, delivered to your inbox every weekday.
Email address
Yes! Sign me up to receive the daily Nature Briefing email. I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Sign up
Close banner
Close
Sign up for the Nature Briefing newsletter — what matters in science, free to your inbox daily.
Email address
Sign up
I agree my information will be processed in accordance with the Nature and Springer Nature Limited Privacy Policy.
Nature (Nature) ISSN 1476-4687 (online) ISSN 0028-0836 (print)
About us
Press releases
Press office
Contact us
Discover content
Journals A-Z
Articles by subject
Nano
Protocol Exchange
Nature Index
Publishing policies
Nature portfolio policies
Open access
Author & Researcher services
Reprints & permissions
Research data
Language editing
Scientific editing
Nature Masterclasses
Nature Research Academies
Libraries & institutions
Librarian service & tools
Librarian portal
Open research
Recommend to library
Advertising & partnerships
Advertising
Partnerships & Services
Media kits
Branded content
Career development
Nature Careers
Nature
Conferences
Nature
events
Regional websites
Nature Africa
Nature China
Nature India
Nature Italy
Nature Japan
Nature Korea
Nature Middle East
Legal & Privacy
Privacy Policy
Use of cookies
Manage cookies/Do not sell my data
Legal notice
Accessibility statement
Terms & Conditions
California Privacy Statement
© 2021 Springer Nature Limited
Your privacy
We use cookies to make sure that our website works properly, as well as some "optional" cookies to personalise content and advertising, provide social media features and analyse how people use our site. By accepting some or all optional cookies you give consent to the processing of your personal data, including transfer to third parties, some in countries outside of the European Economic Area that do not offer the same data protection standards as the country where you live. You can decide which optional cookies to accept by clicking on "Manage Settings", where you can also find more information about how your personal data is processed.View our privacy policy
Manage Settings Accept All Cookies