Set weather
Subscribe now
Sign in
Fact-first journalism when you need it most. Subscribe to OregonLive.
Oregon Tech
Intel’s new CEO: ‘The world needs more semiconductors’
Updated: Jul. 22, 2021, 4:11 p.m. | Published: Jul. 22, 2021, 1:23 p.m.
New Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger touring construction of a $3 billion factory expansion in Hillsboro.Walden Kirsch/Intel photo
Facebook Share
Twitter Share
135
shares
By Mike Rogoway | The Oregonian/OregonLive
Intel delivered mixed results Thursday on its grand makeover, with second-quarter sales topping forecasts even as Wall Street wrung its hands over the chipmaker’s sagging data center business and plans to spend enormous sums on new factories in the U.S. and Europe.
“The world needs more semiconductors,” new CEO Pat Gelsinger insisted on a call with investment analysts. “The world needs a more balanced global supply chain for those semiconductors.”
Investors still aren’t sure Intel, Oregon’s largest corporate employer, is the company to deliver those chips. The company’s stock is flat over the past six months and fell 2% in after-hours trading after Intel reported its quarterly numbers, to $54.90.
After years of technological setbacks, Intel hired Gelsinger in February and tasked him with restoring Intel’s engineering leadership and reviving its beleaguered factory network. He wants to expand into contract manufacturing for other companies, a business the semiconductor industry calls foundry work.
Last month Gelsinger announced a major restructuring, too, replacing the head of Intel’s data center business and bringing in a colleague from his last company, VMware, to be chief technology officer. And Gelsinger, who spent 30 years at Intel before leaving in 2009, has rehired a number of executives and engineers who departed during the dozen years he was away.
“Talent flow was going out of the company,” Gelsinger said Thursday. “It’s now coming back to the company.”
It could be up to two years before the chip industry works out of the global chip shortage squeezing manufacturers in an array industries, Gelsinger said, and even then he said he expects chip demand will continue growing indefinitely.
So Intel is planning to spend $40 billion over the next few years on new factories, announcing new sites in the U.S. and Europe by the end of the year – spending Intel hopes will be augmented by financial support pending in Congress and up for debate in Europe.
And last week The Wall Street Journal reported this month that Intel is negotiating to buy one of the biggest contract manufacturers, Global Foundries, in a potential $30 billion deal.
While Gelsinger wouldn’t directly address that report, he acknowledged the possibility Intel might buy another manufacturer. He called consolidation among foundries “inevitable.”
Thursday’s financial results were modestly better than forecast:
Sales totaled $19.6 billion in the three months ended in June, down from $19.7 billion in the same period in 2020.
Sales in Intel’s client group, which includes PCs, were up 6% from a year ago. Data center sales were down 9%, following weak data center sales in the first quarter. Intel indicated it’s holding prices down in response to competitive pressure, but the company said it expects data center sales to grow by double-digit percentages in the second half of the year.
Profits totaled $5.1 billion, flat from the same quarter last year, $1.24 a share.
The company forecast third-quarter sales of $19.1 billion, which would be a 4.2% increase from the same quarter in 2020. Intel expects annual sales of $77.6 billion, up from $77 billion in its last forecast.
And Gelsinger said development of Intel’s forthcoming 7-nanometer processors, the third consecutive generation of Intel chip hit with unexpected delays, is now “proceeding very well.” Intel expects to have those chips available in 2023.
-- Mike Rogoway | mrogoway@oregonian.com | twitter: @rogoway | 503-294-7699
Note to readers: if you purchase something through one of our affiliate links we may earn a commission.
Recommended for You
Work For a UK Company, Live in Bangladesh
UK Jobs | Search Ads
Dear Abby: My twin brother wants to make my 25th anniversary all about his divorce
OregonLive.com
An Online MBA Degree From Canada May Be Easier Than You Think
Online MBA Degree | Search Ads
School board group asks U.S. for help policing threats made over mask mandates
OregonLive.com
Do You Speak English? Work a USA Job From Home in Bangladesh
USA Work | Search Ads
Dear Annie: Grumpy, depressed, phone-addicted husband needs professional help
OregonLive.com
by Taboola
Promoted Links
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our User Agreement, Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement, and Your California Privacy Rights (User Agreement updated 1/1/21. Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement updated 5/1/2021).
Cookies Settings
© 2021 Advance Local Media LLC. All rights reserved (About Us).
The material on this site may not be reproduced, distributed, transmitted, cached or otherwise used, except with the prior written permission of Advance Local.
Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.
Ad Choices