HOME
MAIL
NEWS
FINANCE
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFE
SHOPPING
YAHOO PLUS
MORE...
Download the Yahoo News app
Yahoo News
Sign in
Mail
News
US
Politics
World
COVID-19
Climate Change
Originals
Health
Science
Podcasts
Contact Us
Videos
Close this content
Biden plugs electric: 50% of new cars to be electric by 2030
Biden administration looks to ease auto-backed inflation with new semiconductor initiative
Christian Datoc
September 23, 2021·4 min read
In this article:
Joe Biden
46th and current president of the United States
Brian Deese
American business executive and government official
The Biden administration will announce a new transparency initiative with semiconductor producers that attempts to address the global supply chain shortage driving up the prices of cars and other electronic goods.
Thursday's announcement marks the administration's first substantive action to address rising prices in the auto industry and other sectors that rely heavily on semiconductors since designating those chips as one of four critical supply chain bottlenecks earlier this spring.
White House economists had previously attributed roughly half of all current inflation to "transitory" semiconductor shortages, yet, production for cars, laptops, televisions, and a number of electronic goods were forced to a temporary halt in September over chip supply concerns.
The initiative will be rolled out at a virtual meeting led by Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and National Economic Council Director Brian Deese. A number of companies and industry groups are expected to attend, per senior administration officials, including Intel, Samsung, Apple, General Motors, Ford, Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, Stellantis, Microsoft, AAI, SIA, Daimler, and more.
BIDEN'S INFLATION WOES PERSIST WITH STOPPAGES AT 'BIG THREE' AUTOMAKERS
According to one administration official, the group will address the "impact the delta variant has had on global semiconductor supply chains and the industry's progress towards improving transparency and trust across the supply chain of firms that both produce and consume chips."
Industry producers have pledged an estimated $75 billion to shore up long-term supply chain deficiencies, but the new transparency initiative will attempt to alleviate the current bottlenecks increasing order lead times and, in some cases, outright causing production stoppages.
A second senior administration official categorized the transparency initiative as an "early alert system" involving multiple countries, specifically in Southeast Asia, and private companies to monitor delta variant-related shutdowns, which the administration has identified as a major factor in the global chip shortages.
Story continues
Our goal is to create a safe and engaging place for users to connect over interests and passions. In order to improve our community experience, we are temporarily suspending article commenting
Recommended Stories
SheKnows
Donald Trump Reportedly Had Eyes for More Than Wife Melania Trump in the White House
Donald Trump had more than his share of infidelity allegations while he was in the White House. For some people in that position, they might be on their best behavior, knowing that America was watching their every move. But for Donald, he reportedly doubled down on his bad behavior by trying to get the attention […]
1d ago
SheKnows
Melania Trump Reportedly Found These Small Ways to Get Back at Donald Trump For His Affairs Coming Out
Melania Trump has certainly put up with a lot in her marriage to Donald Trump. While she’s no shrinking violet, the former first lady found her own way to deal with her husband’s infidelities over the years — it wasn’t about lashing out publicly, it seems her actions were done behind closed doors, according to […]
1d ago
Ad
•
Novelodge
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Brilliant Car Cleaning Hacks Local Dealers Wish You Didn’t Know
HuffPost
Legal Expert: Detail In Weisselberg Indictment Could Be Bad News For Trump
According to the New Yorker, the alleged existence of a separate ledger for Trump has caught the eye of legal insiders.
13h ago
Business Insider
Ivanka Trump and Jared Kushner tried to attend a meeting with Queen Elizabeth II but were stymied when there was no room in the president's helicopter for them, book says
"I finally figured out what was going on," Grisham reportedly wrote. "Jared and Ivanka thought they were the royal family of the United States."
2d ago
HuffPost
Rep. Jim Jordan's Question About Democrats Gets Turned Into A Punchline About Him
Many critics on Twitter responded to the Ohio Republican's slam of Democrats in the same mocking way.
14h ago
Business Insider
Putin hired an attractive female translator to 'distract' Trump during a summit, Stephanie Grisham book says
A new book by Trump's former press secretary said Putin tried to distract Trump at a G20 meeting in Osaka, Japan, in 2019.
1d ago
Business Insider
South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem appears to deny she's having an affair with Trump aide Corey Lewandowski
Multiple women have accused Lewandowski, who runs a Trump political action committee, of sexual misconduct.
1d ago
Fox News
AOC's teary Iron Dome meltdown dampens her chances against Schumer
Rep. Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez, D-N.Y., has tarnished her chances of a potential Senate run against Sen. Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y., after she was filmed crying on the House floor following a vote to give another $1 billion to Israel to restore its Iron Dome missile interception system.
11h ago
HuffPost
Big Myth About Donald Trump, GOP Leaders Is Busted In Blistering New Ad
“These aren’t leaders of a political movement, they’re leaders of a cult. And they kill," progressive PAC MeidasTouch says about its #TrumpCultKills spot.
12h ago
Washington Examiner
Smith & Wesson leaves Northeast after 150 years for Tennessee
Smith & Wesson is moving from blue Massachusetts to red Tennessee.
5h ago
GOBankingRates
Government Shutdown 2021: Will Social Security Checks Still Be Sent?
If you currently receive a Social Security check and wonder whether a government shutdown will impact your payment, rest easy: Social Security payments will continue to go out as usual. See: Senior...
8h ago
Business Insider
Trump's failed attempt to enforce Omarosa's NDA in court may unleash a new wave of embarrassing disclosures, the lawyer who beat him said
Trump failed in a legal attempt to silence Omarosa Manigault Newman, a former White House staffer. Her lawyer said others could now speak up.
1d ago
Politico
Alito speaks out on Texas abortion case and 'shadow docket'
Conservative justice defends court's high-profile emergency actions just one day after Senate hearing on topic.
7h ago
Politico
Manchin offers alternative plans to Democrats' 'fiscal insanity'
The moderate Democrat laid out how he wants to work on President Joe Biden’s family plan, starting with tax reform.
1d ago
AFP
Guinea junta chief to be sworn in Friday as interim president
Mamady Doumbouya, a special forces colonel who led a coup in the West African state of Guinea on September, will be sworn in as interim president on Friday, the authorities say.
11h ago
Washington Examiner
Kristi Noem jettisons Corey Lewandowski amid sexual misconduct allegations
South Dakota Gov. Kristi Noem has cut ties with top political adviser Corey Lewandowski, a close confidant of former President Donald Trump, amid disturbing allegations of sexual misconduct.
6h ago
Business Insider
Putin coughed and cleared his throat throughout a 2019 meeting with Trump, apparently trying to trigger his germaphobia, book says
Trump is famously averse to germs and sickness, and Putin has previously been accused of trying to unsettle other world leaders at their meetings.
2d ago
The Guardian
Top Republicans rub shoulders with extremists in secretive rightwing group, leak reveals
Wealthy entrepreneurs and media moguls also named on membership list for influential Council for National Policy Then president Donald Trump arrives to speak to the 2020 Council for National Policy meeting in Arlington, Virginia, in August last year. The group was founded in 1981 by activists influential in the Christian right. Photograph: Evan Vucci/AP A leaked document has revealed the membership list of the secretive Council for National Policy (CNP), showing how it provides opportunities for
4h ago
Washington Examiner
Ron DeSantis's team slams attack ad encouraging Floridians to 'beg for eternal COVID tyranny'
Florida Gov. Ron DeSantis's team shot back at an ad criticizing the Republican's ban on mask and COVID-19 mandates.
2h ago
Rolling Stone
The Koch Empire Goes All Out to Sink Joe Biden’s Agenda — and His Presidency, Too
The dark-money network is spending tens of millions to undermine Democrats' effort to protect the climate and shore up the social safety net
10h ago
TRENDING
Elon Musk says Tesla owners 'don't seem to listen to me' because they ignore an NDA and share a lot of videos of the company's Full-Self-Driving tech
Business Insider·2 min read
Police say they detained an American Airlines passenger who walked on the wing of a plane after it landed in Miami
INSIDER·1 min read
Merck says research shows its COVID-19 pill works against variants
Reuters·2 min read
Hurricane Sam to kick up 'life threatening' surf along East Coast this weekend
USA TODAY·2 min read
A principal at a Philadelphia elementary school ordered pizza for 400 students after food-services staff didn't show up, with the school district citing a staff shortage
Business Insider·3 min read
POPULAR
Chip shortage spurs new wave of car plant closures in Germany
AFP
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Ad
•
Novelodge
Car Companies Buckle Up for Extended Chip Shortage
The Wall Street Journal
Mass Global Vehicle Shortage Hits 7.7 Million, Doubling Estimates — Consumers To Pay $90 Billion in Higher Costs
GOBankingRates
Powell ‘Frustrated’ That COVID-19 Vaccines and Supply Shortages Likely To Push Inflation Into 2022
GOBankingRates
Taiwan, on chip information request, says respects US laws
Reuters
3 months before Christmas, companies are already bracing for stock shortages and bonkers prices
Fortune
Online retailer CMO hopes to see supply chain improvements, as government addresses HGV driver shortages
Evening Standard
When Will the Chip Shortage End? Experts Weigh In
GOBankingRates
Inflation fears: UK supply chain cost pressures filter into prices
Yahoo Finance UK
Global supply disruptions could still get worse, central bankers warn
Reuters
Grocery shortage: What's the cause?
WISN - Milwaukee Videos
Micron’s Earnings Show the Long Reach of the Chip Shortage. Why the Fix Won’t Be Quick.
Barrons.com
WHO 'truly sorry' for sex abuse by Ebola workers in DR Congo
AFP Videographics