World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
InvestigationsSports
More
Sign In
Register
May 20, 2021
12:49 PM +06
Last Updated 5 months ago
Technology
Nordic Semiconductor has 'no knowledge' of any STMicro interest
Reuters
2 minute read
A logo is pictured on the factory of STMicroelectronics in Plan-les-Oautes near Geneva, Switzerland, December 6, 2016. REUTERS/Denis Balibouse
MILAN, May 20 (Reuters) - Nordic Semiconductor's chief financial officer said the Oslo-listed firm had "no knowledge" of any takeover interest from Franco-Italian chipmaker STMicroelectronics , after a report on Thursday in Italian newspaper MF.
Asked by Reuters about any STMicroelectronics interest and whether he could confirm or deny that the companies had been in talks, as reported by MF, Nordic's CFO Paal Elstad said he had no knowledge of it. read more
"We have no knowledge of this, so we have no comment," Paal Elstad said in a text message. "This is unknown to us."
STMicroelectronics declined to comment on the MF report.
Nordic's (NOD.OL) share price rose by 12.8% to hit an all-time high of 219.8 Norwegian crowns. It has risen by some 55% so far this year amid a surge in global demand for semiconductors, giving it a market capitalisation of $5 billion.
Nordic sells wireless chips and devices designed for ultra-low power consumption, which are used in a wide variety of electronics and computers, but does not itself manufacture the silicon wafers used in the products.
Reporting by Giulio Piovaccari; editing by Agnieszka Flak
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
Palestinians turn e-waste into reusable metals
Deepfake Bruce Willis appears in Russian advert
Einstein goes AI at World Robot Conference
BMW unveils i Vision Circular recyclable car
Ukrainian augmented reality collection hits runway
Stork learns to live with 3D-printed prosthetic leg
Dubai uses AI to help police fight crime
Could display drones snuff out fireworks?
Tokyo vending machines sell Olympics souvenirs
Dubai salon paints microchips onto nails
Read Next
Disrupted
GM's Cruise, Alphabet's Waymo win permits to offer self-driving rides to passengers in California
Technology
Facebook research shows company knew of Instagram harm to teens, senators say
Retail & Consumer
Neiman Marcus says notified 4.6 mln customers about data breach
Disrupted
Self-driving startup Aurora maps out commercial strategy
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Technology
Technology · 1:16 AM +06
Clubhouse rolls out conversation replay and clip-sharing to drive growth
Social audio chat app Clubhouse is launching the ability to record and replay conversations and also download 30-second clips to share on social media or other sites, it said on Thursday.
Technology
GM's Cruise, Alphabet's Waymo win permits to offer self-driving rides to passengers in California
3:19 AM +06
Technology
Self-driving startup Aurora maps out commercial strategy
2:31 AM +06
Technology
Uber temporarily suspends Brussels service in first for Europe
September 30, 2021
Technology
Facebook could face hefty fine in Russia over banned content, says regulator
September 30, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved