Cookies on FT Sites
We use cookies for a number of reasons, such as keeping FT Sites reliable and secure, personalising content and ads, providing social media features and to analyse how our Sites are used.
Accept & continue
Manage cookies
OPEN SIDE NAVIGATION MENU
OPEN SEARCH BAR
Financial Times
MYFT
HOME
WORLD
US
COMPANIES
TECH
MARKETS
CLIMATE
OPINION
WORK & CAREERS
LIFE & ARTS
HOW TO SPEND IT
Sign In
Subscribe
A new world is possible.
Let's not go back to what wasn't working anyway.
Lead the way with 33% off
FT Magazine Semiconductors
Add to myFT
Is it too late for Japan’s semiconductor industry?
Efforts to revive the sector may be doomed by too little investment and insufficient government expertise
© Pate
Share on twitter (opens new window)
Share on facebook (opens new window)
Share on linkedin (opens new window)
Save
Leo Lewis SEPTEMBER 14 2021
27
Print this page
Receive free Semiconductors updates
We’ll send you a myFT Daily Digest email rounding up the latest Semiconductors news every morning.
Picture a motorist who, after many decades behind the wheel, is clearly no longer fit to drive. They know it, the people around them know it, but the confrontation with reality is excruciating. The practical decisions are bad enough; nearly intolerable is the acknowledgment of incompetence and decline.
This, more or less, is where some see Japan’s semiconductor industry. Once a producer of more than half the world’s chips, it is now struggling to retain its 10 per cent share despite a still formidable concentration of factories and critical links in the global supply chain. The car keys haven’t been handed over yet, but a life-changing moment is looming.
In Japan, where past dominance of this industry fits into the national sense of self, it is difficult to overstate the discomfort this issue is causing. Back in the late 1970s, the world’s emerging demand for computer chips proved to be a gift for a national economy that had had its confidence rocked by the “oil shock” earlier that decade. 
Suddenly, a country whose oft-bemoaned lack of natural resources had been confirmed as an economic liability was leading the world in producing a commodity that would go on to rival oil and iron ore in global and strategic importance. More critically, though, it was leading through its own skill and determination rather than geological luck. Chips, for Japan, were not only a physical symbol of manufacturing merit, but a globally tradable token of industrial ambition.
Chips, for Japan, were not only a physical symbol of manufacturing merit, but a globally tradable token of industrial ambition
The problem now is that others, notably South Korea, Taiwan and a reinvigorated US, have demonstrated that ambition more effectively over the past 30 years. And, in a game where the ante is measured in tens of billions of dollars, they have risked ever bolder financial commitments too.
For some time, Japan’s gradual slide down the world’s chipmaker rankings has been a source of disquiet to those who foresaw profound consequences for its overall industrial competitiveness. Their worries intensified as other cherished sectors, such as autos, became more voracious consumers of chips. But most in the industry, along with successive Japanese leaders, seemed to view the issue as a curiosity rather than a crisis.
Quite suddenly, that has changed. Trade war between China and the US, the spectre of unremitting tension between the world’s two biggest economies, has crystallised the strategic importance of chipmaking. Prolonged chip shortages after the Covid-19 pandemic continue to severely affect the production of everything from cars to games consoles. They have also prompted a global rethink, with a new world order in prospect. The US has vowed to invest heavily in securing its position. China will do likewise. The EU has a grand catch-up plan. 
Japan, meanwhile, has realised that its decline as a chipmaker may have become irreversible – at the precise moment its old skills and ambition are desperately required. One government projection has put 2030 as the moment Japan’s global share could fall to nothing; the former prime minister, Shinzo Abe, warned of the need to approach the issue “at a completely different level”.
Yet, for now, efforts by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (Meti) to shape, at record speed, a national effort to remain among the high rollers lack the funding, the diplomacy and the zeal necessary for success. The hope of convincing the world’s most dominant players to set up foundries in Japan is slim.
This bleak conclusion was confirmed recently in a chat with Yukio Sakamoto, the gruff former chief executive of the Japanese chipmaker Elpida Memory. He experienced first hand the repeated failures of Meti to orchestrate the kind of master plan that might, at various times since 1990, have restored the dominance of Japanese chipmakers. The current, horribly belated efforts are, he says, doomed by too little investment, too few engineers and far, far too little government expertise. 
Japan’s strategy on semiconductors “was not put together by someone who knows much about semiconductors”, says Sakamoto. Meanwhile, its relatively slow-moving digital revolution means fewer cutting-edge chip customers are now on home soil.
Sakamoto is certainly at the embittered end of the spectrum on this matter, but his misgivings have the air of the person charged with telling the elderly driver that their days at the wheel are over. It’s a terrible message to deliver and it always ends up having to be done at the worst possible time. 
Leo Lewis is the FT’s Asia business editor
Follow @FTMag on Twitter to find out about our latest stories first
Get alerts on Semiconductors when a new story is published
Get alerts
Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2021. All rights reserved.
Reuse this content
(opens in new window)
Comments
Jump to comments section
Latest from FT Magazine
FT MagazineTim Hayward
Marmo, Bristol: ‘Chef Cosmo Sterck is a genuine talent’ — restaurant review
FT MagazineSimon Kuper
Europe won’t become a military power. What’s more, it shouldn’t
FT MagazineGillian Tett
Would you eat a guinea pig?
FT MagazineRobert Shrimsley
My petrol station dash
FT Magazine
Margot Henderson’s fantasy dinner party — champagne and bistro food with both Queen Elizabeths
FT MagazineJancis Robinson
Keeping fresh: which wines last longest?
FT Magazine
Cush Jumbo on Hamlet, The Good Fight and not backing down
More on Semiconductors
News in-depthAutomobiles
US car shortage hits everyone from dealers to junkyards
Semiconductors
Alphawave: the ARM wannabe’s curiously close contracts
The Big Read
US-China business: the necessary reinvention of Huawei
Semiconductors
US presses chipmakers for more transparency on supply chains
Follow the topics in this article
Leo Lewis
Add to myFT
FT Magazine
Add to myFT
Japanese business & finance
Add to myFT
Semiconductors
Add to myFT
Technology sector
Add to myFT
Feedback
Useful links
Support
View Site Tips
Help Centre
Contact Us
About Us
Accessibility
myFT Tour
Careers
Legal & Privacy
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Copyright
Slavery Statement & Policies
Services
Share News Tips Securely
Individual Subscriptions
Group Subscriptions
Republishing
Contracts & Tenders
Executive Job Search
Advertise with the FT
Follow the FT on Twitter
FT Transact
Secondary Schools
Tools
Portfolio
Today's Newspaper (ePaper)
Alerts Hub
Business School Rankings
Enterprise Tools
News feed
Newsletters
Currency Converter
Community & Events
FT Community
FT Live
FT Forums
Board Director Programme
More from the FT Group
Markets data delayed by at least 15 minutes. © THE FINANCIAL TIMES LTD 2021. FT and ‘Financial Times’ are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.
The Financial Times and its journalism are subject to a self-regulation regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice.