Skip to content
Listen
Newsletters
Shows
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
Search
Menu
How We Survive
I've Always Wondered ...
The Big Return
Econ Extra Credit with David Brancaccio
Make Me Smart Daily
MORE FROM THIS SHOW
0% played
What this Dutch semiconductor company could tell you about the car market
Stephanie Hughes
Aug 2, 2021
Heard on:
The Nijmegen, Netherlands headquarters of Dutch chip maker NXP in 2015. Vincent Jannink/ANP/AFP via Getty Images
Our weekly “Econ Extra Credit” newsletter is an unexpected way to learn about the economy, one documentary film at a time. Sign up to watch, and learn, with us.

You may not have heard of the Dutch semiconductor company NXP. But if you’re in a car right now, you’re probably near one of its products. The company is one of the top suppliers of computer chips to the auto industry. 
It releases earnings after market close on Monday, and analysts say those results could give us a hint at how long the chip shortage will last.

“Within that space, NXP is number one or number two, depending on the year, in terms of its position,” said Anand Srinivasan, a senior technology analyst at Bloomberg Intelligence.
“They’re commonly seen as a bellwether for the industry, in that they supply so many different components of the car,” said Anshel Sag, a senior analyst at Moor Insights and Strategy. “If their earnings are good, that probably looks like some kind of a rebound in the industry.”
NXP makes semiconductors that go into both the body and brain of a car. Its chips make seats recline, tell windows to roll up and even let the car give advice to the driver. Lars Reger, NXP’s chief technology officer, says the company is operating flat-out right now to produce all the chips companies want. And they want a lot. 
“My favorite joke is always, ‘Making a baby takes nine months, making a semiconductor takes at least six months,’” Reger said.
Marketplace Morning Report
Hosted by David Brancaccio
LATEST EPISODES
Enron’s fall provided a valuable lesson about personal finances
Sep 30, 2021
Enron’s deregulation ripple effect, 20 years later
Sep 30, 2021
The German mRNA pioneers hoping to deliver an effective COVID-19 vaccine
Sep 30, 2021
Chip production isn’t the kind of thing that manufacturers can ramp up really quickly. And there have been changing demands on chip production since the pandemic began. Last spring, when lockdowns began in earnest in the U.S., automakers slowed things down.

“The auto industry says, ‘Okay, demand is evaporating, and I need to cut production,’” said Bloomberg’s Srinivasan. “So they went, turned around and cut orders big time with all of their chip makers.”
Then, last summer, carmakers started offering big discounts, and people were ready to get outside and go for drives. But when car companies were ready to order chips again, they’d lost their place in line.
“That has been pretty much the crux of the issue, those chips just went other places,” said Jessica Caldwell, executive director of insights at the car shopping site Edmunds. “There wasn’t really a way to get them back. So [the automakers] kind of had to join the queue.”

On top of that, carmakers can be challenging customers.

“Their requirements are quirky, they need to be long lasting, the design cycles are extremely long,” Srinivasan said. “They are a little bit higher maintenance, if you may, compared to the PC food chain and the smartphone food chain.”

And people stuck at home have been demanding more PCs and smartphones, along with newer technology like smart speakers, smart thermostats and smart credit cards. 
NXP makes lots of these Internet of Things devices, too.
Latest Stories on Marketplace
Long-term unemployment a challenge for women over 40
Owner of child care center hopeful about rebounding from pandemic setbacks
US unemployment claims rise third straight week to 362,000
“Normally, we take about a decade to get all our new innovation accepted by the people,” said NXP’s Reger. “These disruptions were mega-accelerated by the pandemics.”
All that has meant fewer cars to sell — and higher prices and fewer choices for consumers. In the short term, some automakers are selling cars that are less technically sophisticated.
“Maybe the customer is not going to have the fanciest rearview mirror in the world,” Caldwell said. “But most people will be okay with that.”
“The electronics content is shooting up big time and the demand is very high so that the automotive semiconductor industry has a hard time supplying the existing demand for the modern cars,” Reger said.

Looking ahead, the push for autonomous vehicles will create even more demand for chips. Perhaps that’s obvious. 
“Let’s hope those involve a lot of computers. If not, there’s a problem,” Caldwell said. 
STORIES YOU MIGHT LIKE
The chip shortage is hitting just about anything with a plug or battery
What’s behind the chip shortage?
The chips (makers) are down: Semiconductors suffer on trade tensions
Apple’s secret weapon? The semiconductor
Shortage of semiconductors is a security risk, and what the U.S. can do about it
Will U.S. action against SMIC hurt China’s tech sector?
We’re here to help you navigate this changed world and economy.
Our mission at Marketplace is to raise the economic intelligence of the country. It’s a tough task, but it’s never been more important.
In the past year, we’ve seen record unemployment, stimulus bills, and reddit users influencing the stock market. Marketplace helps you understand it all, will fact-based, approachable, and unbiased reporting.
Generous support from listeners and readers is what powers our nonprofit news—and your donation today will help provide this essential service. For just $5/month, you can sustain independent journalism that keeps you and thousands of others informed.
ALSO INCLUDED IN
Tags in this Story
SHARE THIS STORY
LATEST EPISODES FROM OUR SHOWS
7:31 AM PDT
8:06
2:17 AM PDT
10:52
1:59 PM PDT
1:50
Sep 29, 2021
16:28
Sep 29, 2021
26:28
Sep 21, 2021
3:40
Aug 26, 2021
34:03
COVID-19
Nursing schools struggle to fill the void left by pandemic
"Enron: The Smartest Guys in the Room"
What the Enron scandal taught us about investing
FAA plans to reduce the time planes spend taxiing on the runway
Are ibuyers manipulating the housing market?
About
Contact Us
FAQs
Staff
Careers
Support Marketplace
For Individuals
For Foundations
For Corporate Sponsors
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
Subscribe to Marketplace Newsletters:
© 2021 Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved. Marketplace is a division of MPR's 501 (c)(3). EIN: 41-0953924
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use