LOGIN
HELP
PREMIUM SERVICES
Latest Stock Picks
Our Services
Investing Basics
Stock Market
Retirement
Personal Finance
About Us

These 2 Semiconductor Companies Just Shared Some Major Updates
One increased its guidance, and the other just reported exciting earnings.
Jose Najarro
(TMFJoseYT)
Sep 30, 2021 at 10:00AM
ASML Holdings NV (NASDAQ:ASML), a provider of lithography machines needed to manufacture semiconductor chips, and Micron Technology (NASDAQ:MU), a manufacturer of memory needed in all types of technology from cellphones to automobiles, recently announced some significant updates. Today's video focuses on recent news affecting ASML and Micron, current valuations for both companies, and an update on the current semiconductor market. Here are some highlights from the video:
On Sept. 29, during its investors day presentation, ASML provided an update to its investors. Based on the strength in numerous markets in the semiconductor industry, ASML expects to reach annual revenue of 24 billion euros to 30 billion euros, with gross margins of 55% at the midpoint by 2025.  
ASML expects to provide significant returns to investors in the form of share buybacks and growing dividends. Between Sept. 20 and Sept. 24, ASML reported buying back over 50,000 shares each day. ASML's stock price on Wednesday, Sept. 29, is lower than the price ASML paid the week before. 
On Tuesday, Sept. 28, Micron Technologies reported its fourth-quarter earnings after the market closed. Unfortunately, investors were not happy with the upcoming quarter's guidance, which was lower than what analysts expected, causing the stock price to drop. Micron informed investors that a significant hit to the guidance was its PC customers' slowing demand for memory. Still, it is essential to note that the slowdown was caused not by consumer demand but by other chip shortages, which are stalling the production of computers.  
Click the video below for my full thoughts and analysis. 
*Stock prices used were the midday prices of Sept. 29, 2021. The video was published on Sept. 29, 2021.

Should you invest $1,000 in Micron Technology, Inc. right now?
Before you consider Micron Technology, Inc., you'll want to hear this.
Our award-winning analyst team just revealed what they believe are the 10 best stocks for investors to buy right now... and Micron Technology, Inc. wasn't one of them.
The online investing service they've run for nearly two decades, Motley Fool Stock Advisor, has beaten the stock market by over 4X.* And right now, they think there are 10 stocks that are better buys.
See the 10 stocks
*Stock Advisor returns as of September 17, 2021

This article represents the opinion of the writer, who may disagree with the “official” recommendation position of a Motley Fool premium advisory service. We’re motley! Questioning an investing thesis -- even one of our own -- helps us all think critically about investing and make decisions that help us become smarter, happier, and richer.
Jose Najarro has no position in any of the stocks mentioned. The Motley Fool recommends ASML Holding. The Motley Fool has a disclosure policy. Jose is an affiliate of The Motley Fool and may be compensated for promoting its services. If you choose to subscribe through his link, he will earn some extra money that supports his channel. His opinions remain his own and are unaffected by The Motley Fool.
Motley Fool Returns
STOCK ADVISOR
S&P 500
612%
134%
Join Stock Advisor
Discounted offers are only available to new members. Stock Advisor will renew at the then current list price. Stock Advisor list price is $199 per year.
Stock Advisor launched in February of 2002. Returns as of 09/30/2021.
Don't miss out. Market closes in...
22
Hours
:
23
Minutes
:
58
Seconds
Cumulative Growth of a $10,000 Investment in Stock Advisor
Calculated by Time-Weighted Return
STOCKS
Micron Technology, Inc.
NASDAQ:MU
$70.98
$0.56
(-0.78%)
ASML Holding N.V.
NASDAQ:ASML
$745.11
$-5.31
(-0.71%)
Average returns of all recommendations since inception. Cost basis and return based on previous market day close.
RELATED ARTICLES
Micron Cools Off Just a Bit
Will the Semiconductor Shortage Continue Into 2022?
Should You Buy This Beaten-Down Growth Stock Before Earnings?
3 Value Stocks to Buy While They're Cheap
Why You Should Watch These 3 Strong Stocks That Are Down Over 20% From 52-Week Highs
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Pinterest
YouTube
Instagram
Tiktok
© 1995 - 2021 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite.
About the Motley Fool
About Us
Careers
Culture Blog
Research
Press Inquiries
Contact
Advertise
Around the Globe
Fool UK
Fool Australia
Fool Canada
Fool Deutschland
Fool Japan
Motley Fool Companies
The Ascent
Asset Management
Wealth Management
Millionacres
Motley Fool Ventures
All Star Money
Premium Services
Stock Advisor
Rule Breakers
Rule Your Retirement
Options
Boss Mode
All Services
Free Tools
CAPS Stock Ratings
Discussion Boards
Calculators
Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Copyright, Trademark and Patent Information Terms and Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Information