Topics
Week's top
Latest news
Unread news
Subscribe
41
13
Share
Email
Home
Electronics & Semiconductors
Home
Energy & Green Tech
SEPTEMBER 7, 2021
Helping semiconductors find a cooler way to relax
by King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
KAUST scientists devise a way to make solar cells more efficient by extending the lifetimes of hot electrons in semiconductors. Credit: KAUST
Bandgap engineering can improve the performance of optoelectronic devices that aim to harness the energy of "hot" electrons, research from KAUST shows.
Semiconductors have a signature property known as the bandgap that essentially is a range of forbidden electron energies. Electrons with an energy above the top of the bandgap are free to move through the material, whereas those below the bottom of the bandgap are not, and no electrons with an energy in between can exist in the material.
This simple idea defines a semiconductor's optical properties. The energy from any absorbed light is transferred to the material's electrons. Most of the free electrons in a semiconductor have an energy near the top of the bandgap. But the absorption of photons with an energy much larger than the bandgap creates, in turn, much higher energy electrons that are also called "hot electrons."
Understanding the process by which these so-called hot electrons relax to an energy nearer the top of the bandgap is essential for understanding the operation of light-harvesting devices. For example, the efficiency of a solar cell is reduced if this huge excess energy is lost as heat. "However, it was extremely difficult, if not impossible, to sufficiently utilize these hot electrons in real light-conversion applications due to their very short lifetimes," says material scientist Omar Mohammed.
Mohammed and his colleagues used interface and bandgap engineering to delay hot carriers (electrons and holes) relaxation and to significantly increase their lifetimes.
The team studied a semiconductor known as a lead halide perovskite. They designed and fabricated architectures made up of multiple quantum wells: a thin layer of semiconductor sandwiched between light-absorber layers of larger bandgap material. They compared the optical properties of structures in which the wells were all the same thickness and asymmetric structures in which the well widths varied. They used a technique called femtosecond (1 femtosecond = 10-15seconds) transient absorption spectroscopy combined with theoretical calculations to determine the timescale of the hot electron relaxation.
They found the cooling rate had a strong dependence on the quantum well thickness in the asymmetric sample and that the relaxation of the hot carriers in the asymmetric multiple quantum wells was 12.5-fold slower compared to that of the symmetric multiple quantum wells.
"This new finding provides a unique strategy on how to significantly slow down the hot carriers cooling in semiconducting materials for their better utilization in solar cells applications," says postdoc Partha Maity.
Explore further
Unusual bandgap renormalization in 2D inorganic lead-halide perovskite nanoplatelets
More information: Partha Maity et al, Cascade Electron Transfer Induces Slow Hot Carrier Relaxation in CsPbBr3 Asymmetric Quantum Wells, ACS Energy Letters (2021). DOI: 10.1021/acsenergylett.1c01142
Provided by King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
56 shares
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Feedback to editors
Featured
Last Comments
Popular
Using deep generative radar models to predict rainfall over following 90 minutes
6 HOURS AGO
0
Baby Robot: A system that helps toddlers practice their motor skills
8 HOURS AGO
2
New model recognizes emotions in deaf individuals by analyzing EEG signals
SEP 28, 2021
0
Engineered cyanobacteria uses electricity to turn carbon dioxide into fuel
SEP 28, 2021
0
Researchers develop a new robot that can efficiently navigate sidewalks in urban environments
SEP 27, 2021
1
Using deep generative radar models to predict rainfall over following 90 minutes
6 HOURS AGO
Bioengineers develop new class of human-powered bioelectronics
6 HOURS AGO
New tool to help electrical grid planners design sustainable systems
7 HOURS AGO
Baby Robot: A system that helps toddlers practice their motor skills
8 HOURS AGO
In the face of neurotechnology advances, Chile passes 'neuro rights' law
13 HOURS AGO
Visa and Apple Pay vulnerabilities leaves iPhone users open to payment fraud
14 HOURS AGO
Tying quantum computing to AI prompts a smarter power grid
SEP 29, 2021
1
2
Related Stories
Unusual bandgap renormalization in 2D inorganic lead-halide perovskite nanoplatelets
AUG 30, 2021
Hot electrons harvested without tricks
NOV 15, 2019
Closing in on state-of-the-art semiconductor solar cells
MAY 04, 2021
Getting two for one: 'Bonus' electrons in germanium nanocrystals can lead to better solar cells
FEB 14, 2015
Cross-linked hole transport layers for high-efficiency perovskite tandem solar cells
SEP 06, 2021
Perovskites under pressure: Hot electrons cool faster
APR 23, 2021
Recommended for you
Load comments (0)
Phys.org
Daily science news on research developments and the latest scientific innovations
Medical Xpress
Medical research advances and health news
Science X
The most comprehensive sci-tech news coverage on the web
Newsletters
Subscribe
Science X Daily and the Weekly Email Newsletter are free features that allow you to receive your favorite sci-tech news updates in your email inbox
Follow us
Top
Home
Search
Mobile version
Help
FAQ
About
Contact
Science X Account
Sponsored Account
Newsletter
Archive
Android app
iOS app
RSS feeds
Push notification
© Tech Xplore 2014 - 2021 powered by Science X Network
Privacy policy Terms of use