Promote Events Subscribe Contact Us Advertising Payments Place an Ad
Sign Up Log In
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
72°
Sunny
NEWS
SPORTS
LIFE & EVENTS
OBITUARIES
FIND OUR NEWSPAPERS
SPECIAL PUBLICATIONS
JOBS
MARKETPLACE
LEGAL NOTICES
ABOUT US
INSIDENOVATIX
SEARCH
Semiconductor push comes to Manassas
Senators, commerce secretary seeking increased production
By Jared Foretek
May 27, 2021 Updated May 27, 2021
Facebook
Twitter
Email
U.S. Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo speaks to reporters after touring Micron's Manassas plant, as Micron CEO Sanjay Mehrotra looks on.
Jared Foretek / InsideNoVa
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
GET MORE LOCAL NEWS. Sign up for free e-mail alerts.
Manassas was at the center of a push to juice U.S. semiconductor manufacturing this week, as Sens. Mark Warner (D-Va.) and John Cornyn (R-Texas) joined Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo for a tour of Micron’s plant.
Trending on InsideNoVa
  Powered By
The senators said increased domestic production of the electronic devices is urgent for economic and national security reasons. Along with Mayor Michelle Davis-Younger and Micron CEO Sanjay Mehrotra, Warner and Cornyn were touting their co-sponsored $52 billion CHIPS Act, for which Warner said he hopes to see funding approved in the Senate by the end of the week. 
The bill would offer U.S. companies such as Micron – the fourth-largest semiconductor company in the world – funding incentives to expand their semiconductor production. According to the bill’s supporters, America produced 37% of the world’s semiconductors in 1990, but that is down to just 12% today, and a global disruption of semiconductor supply chains due to the COVID-19 pandemic is affecting other industries. 
The chips are found in a myriad of consumer and industrial products, from smartphones to automobiles. Auto manufacturers have had to slow production because of the shortage. Ford CEO Jim Farley called it “perhaps the greatest supply shock” he’s seen, according to Automotive News.
“There are auto factories in America that are idle today, not because there’s not folks that want to buy American cars, but because there are shortages of semiconductors,” Warner said in Manassas on Monday.
About $39 billion of the $52 billion would jumpstart the opening of new foundries, called “fabs.”  The officials toured Micron’s 175,000-square-foot fab, which the company announced a $3 billion expansion of in 2018 with the help of $70 million from the state. 
The plant is the only one in the U.S. where semiconductor memory storage – known as DRAM –  is manufactured, and the company says the expansion will add another 111,000 square feet of production space and 1,100 jobs to the city by 2030. Mehrotra encouraged Congress to pass the funding, which will also need approval from the House of Representatives, to help unlock further investment from companies like Micron.
Demand for the semiconductors has surged in concert with demand for electronic devices during the pandemic, but supply has not followed suit and at times has been hampered by COVID. Industry experts say the chip shortage could continue through 2021. 
The fabs needed to produce the chips are extremely costly and time-consuming to stand up, according to Warner, who said he hoped that the $39 billion could be used to seed seven to 10 new facilities like Micron’s.
Raimondo said the shortage is proving how crucial the semiconductor supply chain is to the country, but manufacturing has recently been dominated by Taiwan. According to CNBC, Taiwan’s contract manufacturers generated 60% of the worldwide foundry revenue in 2020. And according to the bill’s authors, the Communist Party of China is investing $150 billion in semiconductor manufacturing to gain more control of the global supply. 
“Hospitals and medical equipment rely on semiconductors. Pick up your phone, semiconductors. Do anything on a computer, semiconductors,” Raimondo said. “As we go forward – artificial intelligence, quantum computing, everything we do is built on the building blocks of semiconductors. So the supply chain of semiconductors must be secure.”  
She added that any funding approved by Congress would ultimately be disbursed by the Department of Commerce, but that it wouldn’t replace private investment. Instead, she said, it would need to be paired with state and local money to “unlock” private investment.
Phase one of Micron’s new “cleanroom” facility for semiconductor memory production should be completed later this year, with increased output beginning at the end of the year and ramping up in 2022, according to Mehrotra. 
“This is going to be important to meet the growing needs of semiconductors across all end market segments, certainly including automobiles as well,” he added.
Jared Foretek covers the Manassas area and regional news across Northern Virginia. Reach him at jforetek@insidenova.com
Facebook
Twitter
Email
Print
Save
Tags
Headlines Geography Of Virginia Manassas Park, Virginia Semiconductor Sanjay Mehrotra Gina Raimondo Semiconductors Regions Of The United States Manassas Station Operations Potomac And Rappahannock Transportation Commission Manassas, Virginia Manassas Transportation In Virginia Manassas Station Michelle Davis-younger Department Of Commerce Manufacturing Communist Party Of China Secretary Of Commerce 52 Billion Chips Jim Farley Micron’s Plant Industrial Products Quantum Computing Senate Ford Micron Ceo United States Electronic Devices Smartphones Semiconductor Manufacturing House Of Representatives Mark Warner Virginia Ceo John Cornyn Semiconductor Supply Chain Mayor Congress Texas America Taiwan Micron
Jared Foretek
Reporter
Jared Foretek covers the Manassas area and regional news across Northern Virginia. Reach him at jforetek@insidenova.com
Follow Jared Foretek
From the Web
Powered by
FBI Confirms Body Found Is Gabby Petito & Reveals Cause Of Death
Laundrie's Mom Did Something Unusual Before Son Returned Home
The Note Found On Brian Laundrie's Car After Disappearance
Tommy Kirk, Old Yeller Star, Found Dead At 79
Big Boss of internet games!
Can’t find fun online games that are actually fun? Your search is over. Click to start!
Hero Wars
|
Sponsored
Play Now
The Ones that left A Mark. 18 Famous Female Film Characters Then And Now
CelebApex.com
|
Sponsored
Real Estate Prices in Miami Might Surprise You
Real Estate Investments
|
Sponsored
Report: Northam to issue a stay-at-home order for Virginia
UPDATED: Eight charged in death of Woodbridge football player
Prince William County schools closing for two days next week due to coronavirus preparations
Five charged in Haymarket gang rape
Four Northern Virginia schools reporting COVID-19 outbreaks
Lake Ridge parents arrested after children left alone for three days; one found intoxicated
Former Dumfries cop faces four life sentences for sexually assaulting teens
Woman charged with sexually assaulting teen girl
Potomac High School teacher under investigation found dead
(0) COMMENTS
Welcome to the discussion.
Log In






SUBMIT YOUR NEWS!
We're always interested in hearing about news in our community. Let us know what's going on!
Go to form
OPEN FOR BUSINESS
Real-time social media posts from local businesses and organizations across Northern Virginia, powered by Friends2Follow. To add your business to the stream, email cfields@insidenova.com or click on the green button below.
NATIONAL ENTERTAINMENT
3 Big Changes Coming to ‘Bull’ in Season 6
Golf Channel’s LPGA ShopRite Classic Broadcast Makes History
‘Doom Patrol’: Michelle Gomez Says Madame Rouge Is ‘Devastated’ After That Revelation
Renewed TV Shows 2021: Find Out Which Series Will Return for Another Season
News
Sports
Weather
Lifestyles
Obituaries
Multimedia
Things To Do
Online Features
About Us
Contact Us
Media Kit
Subscription Services
Site Forms
Find Our Papers
Notifications Powered by 
iZooto