NEWS
STRATEGY
SPECIAL REPORTS
GALLERIES
BUSINESS RESOURCES
OTHER CONTENT
MORE
IOT WORLD EVENTS
NEWSLETTER
IIOT
CITIES
ENERGY
HOMES/BUILDINGS
TRANSPORTATION/LOGISTICS
CONNECTED HEALTH CARE
RETAIL
AI
ARCHITECTURE
ENGINEERING/DEVELOPMENT
SECURITY
SUPPLY CHAIN, TRANSPORTATION & LOGISTICS
Despite Semiconductor Market Exuberance, Supply Chain Asymmetry Continues
While the semiconductor market continues to promote enthusiasm, supply and demand dysfunction could undercut exuberance.
Written by
Lauren Horwitz
3rd September 2021
While the expectations for the semiconductor market continues to trend positively, the impact of COVID-19 and global trade tensions have cast a pall on this rosy picture.
For 2022, the global semiconductor market is projected to grow by 10.1 percent to US$ 606 billion, according to some estimates. But this growth is tempered by the long-tail impact of the pandemic on supply and demand in various industries.
In 2020, demand for PCs and other electronics boosted demand for semiconductors. So too, tariff wars between the U.S. and China created chip supply shortages.
“Obviously COVID brought an entire different buyer behavior [consumers bought] more TVs and spent less money on traveling and other things. What that does is give you increased demand for electronics. But also the semiconductor shortage stemmed from political policies that were put in place in the U.S. versus China—that really shifted demand towards other products and a sudden shortage of supply,’ Yang said.
Today, continued demand for electronics as well as resurgent demand for cars and other consumer goods has created a supply shortage that will need to be addressed by increased production.
“One example is electric vehicles,” said Michael Yang, senior director of semiconductors at Omdia. “We have turned the hockey stick and the demand for displays and for semiconductors will continue. You have to spend money to support the capacity to build that kind of demand,” Yang said.
At the same time, even as demand for chips continues unabated, there could be risks of future gluts, as industries try to develop chip surpluses for the future and as countries to try build internal manufacturing capacity so they aren’t left out in the cold. Today, as certain markets like automotive experience supply shortages and prices skyrocketing, it may still take time for the global supply chain to even out.
“Everyone is working towards shifting their manufacturing allocation toward longer-demand segments [such as electric cars],” Yang said. But there are certain risks to optimizing for long-game demand. Over time, this could create yet another glut of supply, Yang said. Regional desires to become self-reliant in various countries also create risks for the global supply chain. “The risk is when the industry doesn’t cooperate as a whole, you have isolated supply around the world,” Yang said.
  Tags: Artificial intelligence/machine learning Connected cars Supply Chain, Transportation & Logistics Technologies
RELATED
Automotive Chip Shortage Byproduct of ‘Perfect Storm’
Supply Chain Needs to Be Secured to Address Chip Shortage
Going Beyond Just IoT GPS: A Cookbook for Mobile IoT Applications
New ThroughTek IoT Supply Chain Vulnerability Announced
Leave a comment
-or-
Log in with your IoT World Today account
Alternatively, post a comment by completing the form below:
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Save my name, email, and website in this browser for the next time I comment.
This site uses Akismet to reduce spam. Learn how your comment data is processed.
Related Content
Smart Cities Need Multiple Solutions
The Case for Citizen Engagement
Smart Cities and the New Mobility
Creating a Smart Social City for All
NEWS
View all
Huawei’s Software Pivot Aims to Combat U.S. Sanctions
29th September 2021
Feeding The Cognitive Enterprise: Nestlé Pushes AI, Predictive Maintenance and Robotics
27th September 2021
WHITE PAPERS
View all
The IT and OT Convergence: New Benefits and Considerations
10th September 2021
Transforming Data with Predictive Analytics
2nd September 2021
SPECIAL REPORTS
View all
Cybersecurity Protection Increasingly Depends on Machine Learning
28th October 2020
WEBINARS
View all
No-code IT/OT convergence with an Industrial IoT hub
14th October 2021
AI Driven Precision Medicine in Healthcare
19th October 2021
GALLERIES
View all
Top IoT Trends to Watch in 2020
26th January 2020
Five of the Most Promising Digital Health Technologies
14th January 2020
INDUSTRY PERSPECTIVES
View all
Indoor Climate Change: Understanding the Air We Breathe Using Data
15th September 2021
Securing our smart homes
24th August 2021
EVENTS
View all
IoT World 2021
3rd November 2021 - 4th November 2021
TWITTER
Nominations Close! Today is the last day you can submit your vote for your IoT Leader of the Year Award! Vote for:… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
30th September 2021
Secure your pass for the @IoTWorldSeries 2021 and explore the expo this November. Working in partnership with the… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
30th September 2021
Nominations Close! Today is the last day you can submit your vote for your IoT Leader of the Year Award! Vote for:… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
30th September 2021
Secure your pass for the IoT World 2021 and explore the expo. Working in partnership with the #AISummit, we're crea… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
29th September 2021
The IoT World Awards Ceremony celebrates the outstanding contributions of the best of the best in IoT. Have you or… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
29th September 2021
Watch Manohar Paluri, Director @facebookai as he explains the journey to digital transformation at Facebook with co… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
29th September 2021
Secure your pass for the @IoTWorldSeries 2021 and explore the expo this November. Working in partnership with the… twitter.com/i/web/status/1…
29th September 2021
Huawei will focus on its OS offering to shore up its growing enterprise software division. dlvr.it/S8bXqy https://t.co/xnSsSBnGNj
29th September 2021
NEWSLETTER
Sign up for IoT World Today newsletters: vertical industry coverage on Tuesdays and horizontal tech coverage on Thursdays.
SPECIAL REPORTS
Our Special Reports take an in-depth look at key topics within the IoT space. Download our latest reports.
BUSINESS RESOURCES
Find the latest white papers and other resources from selected vendors.
MEDIA KIT AND ADVERTISING
Want to reach our audience? Access our media kit.
DISCOVER MORE FROM INFORMA TECH
IoT World Series
Channel Futures
RISC-V
Dark Reading
ITPro Today
Web Hosting Talk
WORKING WITH US
Contact
About Us
Advertise
Login/Register
FOLLOW IOT WORLD TODAY ON SOCIAL
Privacy
CCPA: “Do Not Sell My Data”
Cookies Policy
Terms
Copyright © 2021 Informa PLC. Informa PLC is registered in England and Wales with company number 8860726 whose registered and Head office is 5 Howick Place, London, SW1P 1WG.
This website uses cookies, including third party ones, to allow for analysis of how people use our website in order to improve your experience and our services. By continuing to use our website, you agree to the use of such cookies. Click here for more information on our Cookie Policy and Privacy Policy.
X