HOME
MAIL
NEWS
FINANCE
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFE
SHOPPING
YAHOO PLUS
MORE...
Yahoo Finance
Sign in
Mail
Finance
Watchlists
My Portfolio
Screeners
Yahoo Finance Plus
Markets
News
Personal Finance
Cryptocurrencies
…
U.S. markets closed
S&P 500
4,307.54
-51.92 (-1.19%)
 Dow 30
33,843.92
-546.80 (-1.59%)
 Nasdaq
14,448.58
-63.86 (-0.44%)
 Russell 2000
2,204.37
-20.94 (-0.94%)
 Crude Oil
75.12
+0.29 (+0.39%)
 Gold
1,757.50
+34.60 (+2.01%)
 Silver
22.17
+0.68 (+3.17%)
 EUR/USD
1.1586
-0.0013 (-0.12%)
 10-Yr Bond
1.5290
-0.0120 (-0.78%)
 GBP/USD
1.3473
+0.0046 (+0.34%)
 USD/JPY
111.2870
-0.6720 (-0.60%)
 BTC-USD
43,469.74
+2,318.50 (+5.63%)
 CMC Crypto 200
1,069.52
-12.92 (-1.19%)
 FTSE 100
7,086.42
-21.74 (-0.31%)
 Nikkei 225
29,452.66
-91.63 (-0.31%)
  FDA approves booster shots, Facebook CTO steps down, White House’s chip shortage meeting
Yahoo Finance's Julie Hyman breaks down Thursday’s business headlines.
White House seeks to address semiconductor chips crisis harming automakers
David Shepardson
September 23, 2021·2 min read
By David Shepardson 
  WASHINGTON, Sept 23 (Reuters) - The White House will discuss ways to overcome a semiconductor chip supply crisis that is cutting auto production around the world in a new round of meetings with major companies on Thursday. 
  Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and White House National Economic Council director will host companies including Detroit's Big Three automakers General Motors, Ford Motor and Stellantis as well as Apple, Daimler AG, GlobalFoundries, Micron, Microsoft , Samsung, TSMC and others including Intel Corp Chief Executive Pat Gelsinger. 
  The White House plans to release a voluntary request for information this week to get better information on the chips problem from industry and potential solutions to supply chain issues. 
  The administration is seeking comments within 45 days to get details about "supply and demand, inventory, ordering and customer segments," a Biden administration official told reporters Wednesday. 
  "We have other tools in the tool kit to survey firms and require information," the official said, saying they would first seek voluntary efforts. 
  Another official told reporters the Biden administration also plans to stand up a voluntary "early alert system for COVID-19 related shutdowns to microelectronics manufacturing around the world," gathering information from U.S. embassies, impacted businesses and others. 
  The administration wants to ensure it is "maximizing our technical and material assistance to these locations to keep key semiconductor manufacturing facilities and other important facilities up and running." 
  Rising COVID-19 infections have slowed output at parts factories in Vietnam and Malaysia, compounding a global shortage of auto chips. 
  Last month, the economy minister for Taiwan, a major chip maker, said it was doing all it can to address the global shortage of semiconductors. 
Story continues
TRENDING
1.
UPDATE 1-California judge questions counties' opioid case against drugmakers at trial's end
2.
Exclusive-PwC tells U.S. employees they need never return to the office
3.
Swedish Sex-Toy Maker LELO Is Said to Explore London Listing
4.
Money Markets Avoiding Risky Bills: Debt Ceiling Anxiety Tracker
5.
UPDATE 1-Wells Fargo must face shareholder lawsuit alleging compliance failures
Was this article helpful?YesNo
Recommended Stories
BBC
COP26: What is the Glasgow climate conference and why is it important?
A crucial climate change summit is being held in the UK - this is why it's important.
13h ago
Benzinga
Palantir Technologies Stock Plummets, Options Traders Place Big Bets
Palantir Technologies, Inc (NYSE: PLTR) lost its uptrend on Sept. 23 when it failed to make a higher high above the Sept. 17 price of $29.29. When the stock failed to continue its uptrend, Palantir created a bearish double top pattern and between Monday and Wednesday fell 12% lower. On Wednesday morning Palantir lost support at the 200-day simple moving average, which indicates overall sentiment in the stock has turned bearish. Options traders saw another leg down was in the cards and began hamm
1d ago
Ad
•
Novelodge
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Brilliant Car Cleaning Hacks Local Dealers Wish You Didn’t Know
SheKnows
Donald Trump Reportedly Had Eyes for More Than Wife Melania Trump in the White House
Donald Trump had more than his share of infidelity allegations while he was in the White House. For some people in that position, they might be on their best behavior, knowing that America was watching their every move. But for Donald, he reportedly doubled down on his bad behavior by trying to get the attention […]
1d ago
Motley Fool
Why Macy's, Nordstrom, and Party City Just Crashed
Tic-tac-toe, three in a row, shares of retail stocks Macy's (NYSE: M), Nordstrom (NYSE: JWN), and Party City Holdco (NYSE: PRTY) crashed in quick succession Thursday, and were trading down by 7.9%, 9.1%, and 12.4%, respectively, as of 1:54 p.m. EDT. You can probably blame another retail stock -- Kohl's (NYSE: KSS) -- for all of that. You see, there was no particularly bad news on the wires concerning Macy's, Nordstrom, or Party City Thursday.
4h ago
The Wall Street Journal
U.S. Trade Body Rules Against Import of IQOS Heat-Not-Burn Tobacco Devices
Altria and Philip Morris International must halt imports and sales of their IQOS heated tobacco device, the U.S. International Trade Commission ruled in a patent case brought by rival R.J. Reynolds Tobacco.
20h ago
The Telegraph
Beijing says blackouts will not be tolerated as power shortages hit factories
Beijing has warned China's state-backed energy firms that blackouts will not be tolerated this winter as power shortages triggered the first slide in manufacturing activity since the pandemic struck.
11h ago
MarketWatch
Federal Reserve’s reverse repo program sees record $1.6 trillion demand on Thursday
As the clock ticks down on the U.S. federal debt-ceiling standoff in Washington, Wall Street firms are parking a record $1.605 trillion of cash overnight Thursday in the Federal Reserve's popular reverse repo program.
3h ago
Reuters
OPEC+ considers options for releasing more oil to the market -sources
OPEC+ is considering going beyond its existing deal to boost production by 400,000 barrels per day (bpd) when it meets next week, sources said, against a backdrop of oil near a three-year high and pressure from consumers for more supply. Four OPEC+ sources said adding more oil was being looked at as a scenario, but none gave details on volumes or which month. Another OPEC+ source suggested an increase of 800,000 bpd for one month was a possible scenario, with zero the next month.
4h ago
American City Business Journals
Shareholders OK Denver oil company's $17B merger that will move HQ to Houston
The industry's odd couple is expected to shack up Oct. 1, but what they'll be called remains a mystery.
7h ago
Barrons.com
Congress Avoids Government Shutdown. Debt Ceiling, Infrastructure Now in Focus.
Congressional Democrats also are pushing forward huge infrastructure and spending bills that are at the heart of President Biden's domestic agenda.
1h ago
Reuters
Taiwan, on chip information request, says respects US laws
Taiwan respects U.S. commercial law and rules but will help Taiwanese companies if they receive any "unreasonable requests", the government said on Thursday after the United States pressed firms to provide information on the semiconductor crisis. The White House asked automakers, chip companies and others last week to provide information on the chip shortage that has forced cuts to U.S. auto production, and to take the lead in helping to solve it. Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo said a voluntary request for information within 45 days on the chips crisis would boost supply chain transparency and that if companies did not answer the voluntary request "then we have other tools in our tool box that require them to give us data".
14h ago
The Wall Street Journal
Car Companies Buckle Up for Extended Chip Shortage
Once viewed as a short-term crisis for the auto industry, the global computer-chip shortage could take years to fully overcome amid fresh bottlenecks in Asia and the challenge of boosting output of the sector’s more-basic chips.
8h ago
Reuters
Exclusive-PwC tells U.S. employees they need never return to the office
Accounting and consulting firm PwC told Reuters it will allow all of its 40,000 U.S. client services employees to work virtually and live anywhere they want in perpetuity, making it one of the biggest employers to embrace permanent remote work. Other major accounting firms, such as Deloitte and KPMG, have also been giving employees more choice to work remotely in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic. PwC's deputy people leader Yolanda Seals-Coffield said in an interview that the firm was the first in its industry to make full-time virtual work available to client services employees.
22m ago
Barrons.com
United Is Firing Just 320 Employees Who Refused to Get a Covid Shot. Nearly 300 Decided to Get a Vaccine.
United Airlines said Thursday that almost 300 more employees had uploaded proof of vaccination, cutting down the number of employees that would lose their job for failing to comply with the company’s vaccine mandate. United expects that number to continue decreasing. “This was an incredibly difficult decision but keeping our team safe has always been our first priority,” wrote United (UAL) Chief Executive Scott Kirby and President Brett Hart in a letter to employees.
3h ago
Bloomberg
Stocks Suffer Worst Monthly Rout Since March 2020: Markets Wrap
(Bloomberg) -- Volatility continued to roil financial markets, with U.S. equities notching their biggest monthly selloff since March 2020.Most Read from BloombergWall Street Titans Warn of the Next Big Risks for InvestorsThe Country That Makes Breakfast for the World Is Plagued by Fire, Frost and DroughtThe Unstoppable Appeal of Highway ExpansionHSBC Bets Big on China as Pressure Mounts in LondonWhy the Gaza Strip May Be the City of the FutureStocks pushed lower on Thursday even after confirmati
53m ago
MarketWatch
Here’s what would happen if Americans could easily look up everyone’s salary
In the U.S., where there isn’t a nationalized pay transparency law, women earned 82% of what men earned last year. Some experts say more transparency around pay could help change that.
8h ago
Motley Fool
5 Top Stocks for October
The next few months may be messier, with labor shortages and supply chain issues causing serious problems for companies big and small. Here's what you need to know about Digital Realty Trust (NYSE: DLR), SSR Mining (NASDAQ: SSRM), Intel (NASDAQ: INTC), Intuitive Surgical (NASDAQ: ISRG), and GXO Logistics (NYSE: GXO). Matt Frankel, CFP (Digital Realty Trust): Real estate investment trust (REIT) Digital Realty Trust didn't have a great September, with shares falling by more than 10% despite a lack of company-specific news.
2h ago
American City Business Journals
Expect these ripple effects that Ford Motor Co.'s $11.4 billion investment in West TN and Kentucky will have in our backyard
The work in West Tennessee and Kentucky will mean new opportunities — and more competition — for many businesses in Greater Nashville. "It's going to have an impact statewide, because I don't know that you can find 6,000 workers that easily, anywhere."
1d ago
Yahoo Finance
Stock market news live updates: Stocks sink in whipsaw session, S&P 500 posts first monthly decline since January
Stocks turned negative on Thursday in the final session of September and the third quarter, with investors continuing to eye moves in Treasury bond yields and debates in Washington over a host of measures.
1h ago
Reuters
China's electric carmakers make their move on Europe
China's electric carmakers are darting into Europe, hoping to catch traditional auto giants cold and seize a slice of a market supercharged by the continent's drive towards zero emissions. Nio Inc, among a small group of challengers, launches its ES8 electric SUV in Oslo on Thursday - the first foray outside China for a company that is virtually unheard of in Europe even though it's valued at about $57 billion. Yet Europe, a crowded, competitive car market dominated by famous brands, has proved elusive for Chinese carmakers in the past.
16h ago