World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
InvestigationsSports
More
Sign In
Register
September 24, 2021
11:48 PM +06
Last Updated 7 days ago
Disrupted
New semiconductor plants will end global auto chip shortage next year -Tesla's Musk
Reuters
2 minute read
0 seconds of 0 seconds
TURIN, Sept 24 (Reuters) - Tesla Inc (TSLA.O) CEO Elon Musk said on Friday that thanks to new semiconductor plants that are planned or under construction, the global chip shortage that has pummelled the car industry this year should be short term in nature.
Asked how long he thought the global chip shortage would affect vehicle production, Musk said: "short term I think".
"There's a lot of chip fabrication plants that are being built," Musk said during a joint session with Stellantis (STLA.MI) and Ferrari (RACE.MI) Chairman John Elkann, at Italian Tech Week.
"I think we will have good capacity for providing chips by next year," he added.
The two automotive industry leaders agreed on potential support coming from nuclear power to cover for increasing global energy needs.
1/2
Chairman of Stellantis and Ferrari John Elkann speaks via video conference with Tesla's founder Elon Musk during the "Italian Tech Week" event in Turin, Italy September 24, 2021. REUTERS/Massimo Pinca
Read More
"I am surprised by a recent move away of some countries form nuclear energy, which is safe," Musk said.
But in their dialogue they avoided referring to competition issues between top electric mobility leaders such as Tesla and legacy automakers now investing heavily to expand their offer of electrified vehicles.
Musk however thanked Elkann for a support Tesla received between 2017 and 2019 from Comau, the robot unit of Fiat Chrysler, now part of Stellantis, during what he called "one of the most painful periods" for his company, linked to the launch of production on Model 3.
"John helped me a lot in that period," Musk said, adding Tesla had come close to bankruptcy "half a dozen times".
Stellantis Chief Executive Carlos Tavares has said the group, formed through the merger between Fiat Chrysler and France's PSA, expected to achieve its European carbon dioxide emission targets this year without credits bought from Tesla.
Reporting by Giulio Piovaccari, Writing By Nick Carey, Editing by Louise Heavens
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
Palestinians turn e-waste into reusable metals
Deepfake Bruce Willis appears in Russian advert
Einstein goes AI at World Robot Conference
BMW unveils i Vision Circular recyclable car
Ukrainian augmented reality collection hits runway
Stork learns to live with 3D-printed prosthetic leg
Dubai uses AI to help police fight crime
Could display drones snuff out fireworks?
Tokyo vending machines sell Olympics souvenirs
Dubai salon paints microchips onto nails
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Disrupted
Disrupted · 3:19 AM +06
GM's Cruise, Alphabet's Waymo win permits to offer self-driving rides to passengers in California
General Motors Co's Cruise and Alphabet Inc's Waymo self-driving car subsidiaries on Thursday became the first companies to receive autonomous vehicle permits to offer rides to passengers in California.
Disrupted
Self-driving startup Aurora maps out commercial strategy
2:31 AM +06
Disrupted
Clubhouse rolls out conversation replay and clip-sharing to drive growth
1:16 AM +06
Disrupted
Google tells court 'staggering' $5 bln EU antitrust fine flawed
September 30, 2021
Disrupted
China's electric carmakers make their move on Europe
September 30, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved