World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
September 30, 2021
5:47 AM +06
Last Updated 7 days ago
Technology
U.S., EU agree to work on chip supplies, tech rules, China trade
By David Lawder and Nandita Bose
4 minute read
1/5
A security guard walks near EU and U.S. flags, before the EU-US summit, in Brussels, Belgium June 15, 2021. REUTERS/Yves Herman
PITTSBURGH/WASHINGTON, Sept 29 (Reuters) - The United States and European Union agreed on Wednesday to deepen transatlantic cooperation to strengthen semiconductor supply chains, curb China's non-market trade practices and take a more unified approach to regulating big, global technology firms.
Launching a new forum, the U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council (TTC), senior cabinet officials from both continents also pledged to cooperate on the screening of investments on export controls for sensitive dual-use technologies and on the development of artificial intelligence (AI).
The statement did not mention China but said: "We stand together in continuing to protect our businesses, consumers, and workers from unfair trade practices, in particular those posed by non-market economies, that are undermining the world trading system."
The Biden administration has kept in place tariffs imposed by former U.S. president Donald Trump but has sought to differentiate itself by collaborating more with allies in its approach to China.
The meetings were led by U.S. Secretary of State Antony Blinken, Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo, U.S. Trade Representative Katherine Tai, EU trade chief Valdis Dombrovskis, and European Commissioner for Competition Margrethe Vestager.
They met in a robotics and AI technology development center built inside the rusted skeleton of a former steel rolling mill topped with solar panels, a symbol of Pittsburgh's post-industrial rebirth as a tech hub.
The meeting was nearly derailed by French anger over a U.S. decision this month to supply Australia with nuclear submarines, which prompted Canberra to scrap a $40 billion submarine contract with France.
But the U.S. and EU governments backed a joint declaration to strengthen semiconductor supply chains, focusing initially on easing short-term supply bottlenecks and later on identifying longer-term vulnerabilities and "strengthening our domestic semiconductor ecosystems, from research, design to manufacturing, with a view to improving resilience." read more
They said they would work to avoid a subsidy race to attract chip investments and seek "the right incentives."
The statement did not specify a time frame for a second TTC meeting, but EU officials said this would likely take place in the spring of 2022 in Europe.
BIG TECH POWER
Reuters was first to report a draft statement revealing a more unified approach to limit the growing market power of Big Tech. This was echoed in the final statement that identified common areas of concern such as illegal and harmful content amplified by algorithms.
"We are committed to transatlantic cooperation regarding platform policies that focus on disinformation, product safety, counterfeit products, and other harmful content," the statement said.
With the United States and Europe trying to restrain the growing power of American tech giants such as Alphabet's (GOOGL.O) Google, Facebook (FB.O), Apple (AAPL.O) and Amazon (AMZN.O), such cooperation would make it harder for the U.S. tech industry to fight new rules.
Vestager, who has taken a tough stance on the U.S. tech industry for years, said the discussions on AI were among the meeting's biggest takeaway.
"Minds are meeting for artificial intelligence to be trustworthy, to be human centered, and to have a risk based approach," Vestager told reporters after the meeting.
The new tech and trade council has formed 10 working groups to deepen cooperation on these areas and others that include climate and clean technologies, communications technology security, and misuse of technology to repress human rights.
Several tech trade groups in Washington said the industry does not want the United States to adopt the European approach to digital regulation.
EU officials said the meeting's participants did not discuss one of the biggest transatlantic trade irritants - U.S. tariffs on steel and aluminum that have prompted retaliatory EU duties on U.S. bourbon whiskey and motorcycles.
On Tuesday, Dombrovskis said time was running short for the sides to reach agreement before an end-November deadline, but added the EU was ready to look at similar arrangements agreed by Canada and Mexico that lifted U.S. tariffs on their steel and aluminum exports to the United States in 2019.
Reporting by David Lawder in Pittsburgh, Nandita Bose in Washington; Additional reporting by Philip Blenkinsop in Brussels; Editing by David Gregorio and Christopher Cushing
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
Robots give Greece's postal service speed boost
Two Americans win Nobel Prize in Medicine
Palestinians turn e-waste into reusable metals
Deepfake Bruce Willis appears in Russian advert
Einstein goes AI at World Robot Conference
BMW unveils i Vision Circular recyclable car
Ukrainian augmented reality collection hits runway
Stork learns to live with 3D-printed prosthetic leg
Dubai uses AI to help police fight crime
Could display drones snuff out fireworks?
Read Next
Disrupted
Analysis: If Facebook is the problem, is a social media regulator the fix?
Government
Amazon sued by warehouse workers over COVID-19 screening pay
Technology
NSO ended Pegasus contract with UAE over Dubai leader's hacking
Technology
FAA proposes issuing operator license to Relativity Space
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Technology
Technology · 12:01 AM +06
Amazon's Twitch hit by data breach
Amazon.com Inc's live streaming e-sports platform Twitch said on Wednesday it was hit by a data breach, without providing further details.
Technology
Amazon sued by warehouse workers over COVID-19 screening pay
1:04 AM +06
Technology
Bitcoin hits strongest level since May
October 6, 2021
Technology
Nvidia offers EU concessions over $54 billion Arm deal
October 6, 2021
Technology
Stablecoins to face same safeguards as traditional payments
12:36 AM +06
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved