MARKETS
BUSINESS
INVESTING
TECH
POLITICS
CNBC TV
WATCHLIST
PRO
MAKE IT
USA
INTL
Search quotes, news & videos
SIGN IN
TECH
Elon Musk says the chip shortage is a ‘short-term’ problem
PUBLISHED FRI, SEP 24 20217:41 AM EDTUPDATED SAT, SEP 25 20212:50 AM EDT
Sam Shead
@SAM_L_SHEAD
SHARE
Share Article via Facebook
Share Article via Twitter
Share Article via LinkedIn
Share Article via Email
KEY POINTS
The tech billionaire said he thinks chip shortage is a “short-term” problem as opposed to a long-term one. 
“There’s a lot of chip fabrication plants that are being built and I think we will have good capacity by next year,” Musk said at an Italian tech event that was streamed online Friday.
Chip heavyweights Intel and TSMC have announced plans to build new plants in the U.S. but they won’t come online for several years yet.
In this article
TSLA
Tesla Motors CEO Elon Musk speaks to the media next to its Model S.
Nora Tam | South China Morning Post | Getty Images
Tesla CEO Elon Musk said Friday that the ongoing semiconductor crisis will be over by next year.
The tech billionaire said he thinks chip shortage is a “short-term” problem as opposed to a long-term one. 
“There’s a lot of chip fabrication plants that are being built and I think we will have good capacity by next year,” Musk said at an Italian tech event that was streamed online Friday.
Musk did not specify which chip plants he was referring to.
Chip heavyweights Intel and TSMC have announced plans to build new plants in the U.S. but they won’t come online for several years yet.
Glenn O’Donnell, a vice president research director at advisory firm Forrester, believes the shortage could last until 2023.
“Because demand will remain high and supply will remain constrained, we expect this shortage to last through 2022 and into 2023,” he wrote in a blogpost in April.
The global chip shortage has had a major impact on a wide range of industries, but the automotive sector has been particularly badly hit. Big names in the industry such as Ford, Volkswagen and Daimler have all been forced to suspend production at various points and cut their manufacturing targets as a result of a lack of chips.
Impact on Tesla
During the company’s first-quarter earnings, Musk said that Tesla had some supply chain issues, before going on to reference the chip shortage. 
“This quarter, and I think we’ll continue to see that a little bit in Q2 and Q3, had some of the most difficult supply chain challenges that we’ve ever experienced in the life of Tesla and same difficulties with supply chain, with parts — over the whole range of parts. Obviously, people have heard about the chip shortage. This is a huge problem.”
Consulting firm AlixPartners predicted this week that the chip shortage will cost the automotive industry $210 billion in revenue this year alone. 
“Of course, everyone had hoped that the chip crisis would have abated more by now, but unfortunate events such as the COVID-19 lockdowns in Malaysia and continued problems elsewhere have exacerbated things,” said Mark Wakefield, global co-leader of the automotive and industrial practice at AlixPartners, in a statement.
VIDEO09:26
How the global computer chip shortage happened
Carmakers use semiconductors in everything from power steering and brake sensors, to entertainment systems and parking cameras. The smarter cars get, the more chips they use.
In 2019, Tesla started producing cars with custom AI chips that help on-board software make decisions in response to what’s happening on the road.
Musk said in July that production of Tesla’s Powerwall product, a backup battery for the home, was “lagging” as a result of the chip shortage.
 Closing Bell
WATCH LIVE
UP NEXT | Fast Money 5:00 PM ET
TV
Closing Bell
WATCH LIVE
UP NEXT | Fast Money 5:00 PM ET
Listen
Subscribe to CNBC PRO
Licensing & Reprints
CNBC Councils
Supply Chain Values
CNBC on Peacock
Advertise With Us
Join the CNBC Panel
Digital Products
News Releases
Closed Captioning
Corrections
About CNBC
Internships
Site Map
Ad Choices
Careers
Help
Contact
News Tips
Got a confidential news tip? We want to hear from you.
GET IN TOUCH
CNBC Newsletters
Sign up for free newsletters and get more CNBC delivered to your inbox
SIGN UP NOW
Get this delivered to your inbox, and more info about our products and services. 
Privacy Policy
|
Do Not Sell My Personal Information
|
CA Notice
|
Terms of Service
© 2021 CNBC LLC. All Rights Reserved. A Division of NBCUniversal
Data is a real-time snapshot *Data is delayed at least 15 minutes. Global Business and Financial News, Stock Quotes, and Market Data and Analysis.
Market Data Terms of Use and Disclaimers
Data also provided by