World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
September 22, 2021
2:07 AM +06
Last Updated 15 days ago
Autos & Transportation
GM president: Global chip supplies to stabilize at lower-than-desired levels
Reuters
2 minute read
General Motors President Mark Reuss talks about the Chevrolet 2021 Suburban and Tahoe SUVs in Detroit, Michigan, U.S. December 10, 2019. REUTERS/Rebecca Cook
DETROIT, Sept 21 (Reuters) - General Motors Co's (GM.N) president said on Tuesday the global supply of semiconductor chips will begin to stabilize but at lower levels than the auto industry wants as it tries to rebuild vehicle inventories.
"We're going to see a stablization to some extent before we see getting the volume we really need," Mark Reuss said at a conference hosted by the Detroit Regional Chamber on Mackinac Island in northern Michigan.
The global chip shortage has caused GM and automakers globally to idle production at plants, with some executives warning the issue could linger into 2023.
GM Chief Financial Officer Paul Jacobson said last week GM expects a "more stable year" in 2022 for chip suppliers, but warned third-quarter wholesale deliveries could be down by 200,000 vehicles due to the shortage. read more
Looking ahead, Reuss said a crucial issue for the auto industry would be recycling materials used in electric vehicle (EV) batteries, such as rare earth minerals.
"There's a lot of material in a battery cell that can be reused," he said. "We're spending time on that."
GM in July said it was investing in a U.S. lithium project that could become the country's largest by 2024, making the No. 1 U.S. automaker one of the first to develop its own source of a battery metal needed for EVs.
Reuss said GM was also looking at opportunities in Australia, without disclosing details. read more
Reporting by Ben Klayman Editing by Chris Reese and Barbara Lewis
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
EU leaders make plans to thrash out gas strategy
World's top miners pledge net-zero emissions
Tesco: shoppers won't pay to go green
PepsiCo hikes revenue forecast as soda demand jumps
GM's new research center to cut battery costs
Micro-shift app gets students super-short jobs
Facebook's AI catches little 'offending content'...
BVTV: Facebook under siege
Rent the Runway's IPO filing shows drop in revenue
EV batteries: major players and their expansion plans
Read Next
Americas
Auto output dives in Brazil, Mexico as chip shortages bite
Autos & Transportation
Stellantis' Alfa Romeo to launch new model every year to 2026
Autos & Transportation
Nissan plans Mexico work stoppages in October due to chip shortage
Change Suite
GM aims to double revenues by 2030 as it drives to pass Tesla
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Autos & Transportation
Autos & Transportation · October 6, 2021 · 10:07 PM +06
GM aims to double revenues by 2030 as it drives to pass Tesla
General Motors Co Chief Executive Mary Barra told investors Wednesday the automaker plans to double revenue by 2030, expanding profits from combustion vehicles as it rolls out new electric vehicles and new digitally-powered services in a bid to catch up with Tesla Inc .
Autos & Transportation
Sweden's AB Volvo wins its largest electric truck order so far
October 6, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Tesla faces investor test after big jury award over racism
October 6, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Battery giants face skills gap that could jam electric highway
October 5, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Stellantis' Alfa Romeo to launch new model every year to 2026
October 6, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved