World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
October 5, 2021
3:33 PM +06
Last Updated a day ago
Autos & Transportation
UK's Melrose hit by cancelled orders as carmakers battle chip crisis
By Yadarisa Shabong
2 minute read
A researcher plants a semiconductor on an interface board during a research work to design and develop a semiconductor product at Tsinghua Unigroup research centre in Beijing, China, February 29, 2016. REUTERS/Kim Kyung-Hoon/File Photo
Oct 5 (Reuters) - British parts supplier Melrose (MRON.L) is seeing up to 25% of monthly orders from automotive clients cancelled, it said on Tuesday, as the industry remains engulfed in a chip shortage that has forced carmakers to cut production.
Shares in FTSE 100 (.FTSE) listed Melrose were down 3.2% at 0905 GMT, lagging the broader market.
Melrose, whose GKN unit supplies parts like driveline systems to Volkswagen and other major carmakers, said its businesses should still meet annual profit margin targets if car production this year catches up to last year's total.
"Tightened supply of semiconductors to the automotive industry are frustrating and difficult to plan for," Melrose Chief Executive Simon Peckham said in a statement.
"But whilst they affect current trading, they don't impact long-term value, particularly as cash is well controlled and debt reduced," he added.
Melrose also said it was focused on saving costs against a backdrop of rising inflation and all its businesses would take "whatever actions are necessary".
The company's profits plummeted last year as the pandemic wrought havoc on its aerospace division, which supplies components to aircraft including the Eurofighter Typhoon.
While the aerospace unit has begun to recover, Melrose's automotive division has been hurt by the chip crisis, which began during the pandemic due to unprecedented demand for chips used in digital products while car use waned.
The crisis has affected a range of industries globally and forced carmakers to cut production and temporarily shut down plants.
"While we expect fairly substantial cuts to near-term consensus estimates, we believe that the underlying progress at Melrose is strong," Stifel analyst Mark Davies Jones said in a note, referring to analyst forecasts.
Melrose said "in month cancellations" from automotive customers had climbed to 20%-25% of orders from a normal 1% per month during January-March.
Meanwhile, revenue from its aerospace division rose 16% in the September quarter, Melrose said.
Reporting by Yadarisa Shabong in Bengaluru Editing by Sachin Ravikumar and Mark Potter
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
EU leaders make plans to thrash out gas strategy
World's top miners pledge net-zero emissions
Tesco: shoppers won't pay to go green
PepsiCo hikes revenue forecast as soda demand jumps
GM's new research center to cut battery costs
Micro-shift app gets students super-short jobs
Facebook's AI catches little 'offending content'...
BVTV: Facebook under siege
Rent the Runway's IPO filing shows drop in revenue
EV batteries: major players and their expansion plans
Read Next
Americas
Auto output dives in Brazil, Mexico as chip shortages bite
Autos & Transportation
Stellantis' Alfa Romeo to launch new model every year to 2026
Autos & Transportation
Nissan plans Mexico work stoppages in October due to chip shortage
Change Suite
GM aims to double revenues by 2030 as it drives to pass Tesla
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Autos & Transportation
Autos & Transportation · October 6, 2021 · 10:07 PM +06
GM aims to double revenues by 2030 as it drives to pass Tesla
General Motors Co Chief Executive Mary Barra told investors Wednesday the automaker plans to double revenue by 2030, expanding profits from combustion vehicles as it rolls out new electric vehicles and new digitally-powered services in a bid to catch up with Tesla Inc .
Autos & Transportation
Sweden's AB Volvo wins its largest electric truck order so far
October 6, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Tesla faces investor test after big jury award over racism
October 6, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Battery giants face skills gap that could jam electric highway
October 5, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Stellantis' Alfa Romeo to launch new model every year to 2026
October 6, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved