World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
September 15, 2021
9:28 PM +06
Last Updated 22 days ago
Europe
EU plans 'Chips Act' to promote semiconductor self-sufficiency
By Foo Yun Chee
2 minute read
0 seconds of 0 seconds
STRASBOURG, Sept 15 (Reuters) - The European Commission announced plans on Wednesday for a new chipmaking "ecosystem", to keep the EU competitive and self-sufficient after a global semiconductor shortage showed the hazards of relying on Asian and U.S. suppliers.
Reporting by by Foo Yun Chee; editing by Gabriela Baczynska and Peter Graff
You have reached your article limit
Register for FREE to continue using Reuters.com
Free registration gives you access to:
Unmatched, global, round-the-clock news
Hand-picked insights that are easy to find and use
Our Daily Briefing newsletter, delivering the day's headlines right to your inbox
Register now
Already registered? Sign in
Terms & Conditions apply
Are you a Thomson Reuters legal customer? Learn more
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
Pfizer vaccine less effective after 6 months: study
Five stories you need to know about today
Australia to buy Merck's COVID-19 pill
Ethiopia's Abiy vows to fend off foreign interference
Pandora Papers 'a blow' to Kenyatta's credibility - analyst
Iraqi Kurds take smugglers' route to Belarus
Nobel Prize for Physics goes to climate trio
French clergy 'abused 216,000 children' since 1950
Russian film crew reach international space station
Climate change killing world's coral reefs - study
Read Next
Government
U.S. Supreme Court justices ask why a Guantanamo detainee cannot testify
Middle East
Sheikh Mohammed ordered phones of ex-wife and lawyers to be hacked: UK court
Technology
NSO ended Pegasus contract with UAE over Dubai leader's hacking
Science
Nobel chemistry prize goes to duo who developed a tool for molecule building
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Europe
Europe · October 6, 2021 · 9:11 PM +06
"This is the moment of shame," pope says about France abuse report
Pope Francis said on Wednesday he was saddened and ashamed by the Catholic Church's inability to deal with sexual abuse of children in France and that the Church must make itself a "safe home for everyone".
Europe
EU cannot hide divisions over Balkans, summit chair Michel says
October 6, 2021
Europe
Germany's SPD to open coalition talks with "kingmaker" parties
October 6, 2021
Europe
U.S. security adviser Sullivan and China's Yang hold talks in Zurich
12:24 AM +06
Europe
NSO ended Pegasus contract with UAE over Dubai leader's hacking
12:57 AM +06
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved