Log In
Register now
News
Politics
Opinion
Culture
Money
Lifestyle
Features
Sport
Consumer
Silicon shortage: Why semiconductor chips are so hard to find with everything from cars to consoles delayed
A perfect storm of Covid-19, heightening tensions with China and climate change is being blamed. But how long will the silicon shortage last?
A smartphone factory in China, the global manufacturing hub – and the centre of the silicon crisis (Photo: Feature China/Barcroft Media/Getty)
By Conrad Landin
October 4, 2021 3:05 pm(Updated 3:06 pm)
Christmas is already in peril – with shortages of foods, turkeys and toys all feared due to supply chain issues blighting the consumer landscape.
Now the prospect of a silicon shortage can be thrown into the mix – affecting electronic goods such as smartphones and games consoles – and a whole host of other products and devices that rely on computer chips.
A shortage of silicon chips, fuelled by the quadrupling of silicon metal prices in just two months, is sending shockwaves through the world of technology.
The freshest exclusives and sharpest analysis, curated for your inbox
Signs of a crisis go back months – with car manufacturers shutting down production lines in April due to a shortage of chips.
At that time, typhoons in Taiwan were blamed for affecting production, and a huge drop in demand for cars thanks to Covid-19 had led the chip industry to divert resources to the burgeoning computing sector.
But the situation now is more acute and widespread, with the prolonged economic shocks of the pandemic combining with a plethora of factors to drive up the price of silicon metal.
Silicon is a crucial building block in our mobile phones and computers, as well as in glass, concrete and car parts.
On Friday, Norwegian chemicals firm Elkem ASA said it had suspended the sales of some silicon-made products.
The shortage is a result of a perfect storm of conditions across public health, geopolitics and climate change.
Silicon metal’s core component, which is present in sand and clay, makes up a whopping 28 per cent of the earth’s crust. So it should be cheap and plentiful.
But a slowdown in silicon production has coupled with increasing demand to reveal the unstable foundations of many products we take for granted.
That demand is – of course – linked to Covid-19, as employers and those working from home ordered more hardware and gadgets online.
Apple recorded a 54 per cent increase in revenue in the first three months of 2021, when compared with the same period last year.
Rising tensions between China and the West have contributed to the semiconductor shortage (Photo: Getty)
But Covid-19 has also seen a sharp drop in manufacturing, with industrial workers in many parts of the world unable to be in their workplaces.
As restrictions have eased, fear of infection has still limited the number of employees able to be on site at any one time. Production of both silicon metal and semi-conductors has taken a big hit.
The world also relies heavily on China – the first country to be hit by the Covid-19 pandemic – for silicon chips.
In the past few years, China has massively cut its usage of coal in an effort to reduce carbon emissions. The country is now experiencing rising energy costs. But Beijing fears that passing costs onto consumers would lead to rising inflation, so it is instead rationing electricity for industrial customers, which has hit silicon production.
It is impossible to understand the silicon crisis without considering the context of rising tensions between China and the West.
After the Australian government called for an international probe into the origins of the coronavirus pandemic, Beijing imposed an unofficial ban on importing coal from Australia. This had a knock-on effect on China’s energy supply – and, in turn, silicon production.
Read More
In fuel, staff and energy shortages, Boris Johnson is finally facing a crisis he can’t bluster his way out of
Meanwhile, former US president Donald Trump’s trade sanctions on China led to the blacklisting of China’s largest manufacturer of semiconductors, the partially state-owned Semiconductor Manufacturing International Corporation, from buying key components in the US.
US President Joe Biden has maintained Mr Trump’s hefty sanctions.
The new Aukus defence pact between Australia, the UK and the US – which will see Australia acquire new nuclear-fuelled submarines – has prompted China to accuse western powers of a “Cold War mentality and ideological prejudice”.
It is likely to prolong the trade disputes over both Australian coal and US technology.
How long will the shortage last? American business executive and engineer, and chief executive of Intel, Pat Gelsinger, has warned that it “could still take a couple of years for the ecosystem to address shortages of foundry capacity”.
But some are more optimistic.
“We’ve been through this before,” said Constellium Rolled Products chief executive Buddy Stemple, in comments reported by Bloomberg.
“Hopefully it’s very focused on supply-chain disruptions that can come back in a satisfactory period of time to keep things moving.”
But whether it’s a blip or the advent of a new era, the silicon crisis has exposed how much of modern-day life is literally built on sand.
“It’s hard to tell if there will be real shortage or just delays in equipment being delivered,”Bill Mitchell, director of policy at BCS, the Chartered Institute for IT, said.
“If the normal rules of capitalism work, what will happen is price rises as demand outstrips supply.”
Topics
CarsChristmasPlaystation 5
Most Popular
OPINION
Boris Johnson's speech went down a storm. Outside, the country was falling apart
NEWS
FACT CHECKRishi Sunak claimed the HGV shortage was 'Europe-wide and beyond' - here's the reality
RUGBY UNION
EXCLUSIVERed-green kit clashes will be banned from 2027 Rugby World Cup to aid colour blind fans
POLITICS
Dominic Raab called out on BBC News after claiming misogyny applies to men as well as women
POLITICS
Mass culling of pigs starts as Boris Johnson sparks anger over 'bacon sandwiches' comments
POLITICS
ANALYSISCulture warrior Boris Johnson blames the UK's current ills on anyone but himself
MONEY
How Elon Musk has inflated the price of Shiba Inu coin by tweeting about his dog
NEWS
Boris Johnson accused of fudging numbers in claims about 127 visas for HGV drivers
OPINION
Standing up for good police officers is unfashionable, but we need them more than ever
NEWS
Met police is 'boys club of racism and misogyny' and it's 'no surprise' Couzens wasn't stopped
The i newsletter latest news and analysis
Essentials
News
Sport
Lifestyle
Culture
Opinion
ibuys
Useful links
Contact Us
About
Advertise
Subscribe to i
i competitions
i newsletters
i app
Sitemap
Follow us on
All rights reserved. © 2021 Associated Newspapers Limited.
Cookie Settings
Don't sell my info
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy