World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
October 1, 2021
12:00 PM +06
Last Updated 6 days ago
Macro Matters
Analysis: From chips to ships, shortages are making inflation stick
By Dhara Ranasinghe and Sujata Rao
5 minute read
1/3
People refuel their vehicles at a fuel station in London, Britain, September 30, 2021. REUTERS/Hannah McKay
Summary
Analysts still view price pressures as temporary
But watching supply, worker shortages closely
U.S. seen more at risk from wage-induced inflation
LONDON, Sept 30 (Reuters) - Soaring gas prices, staff shortages, a lack of ships -- price pressures globally may be picking up faster than anticipated, challenging the view that inflation will prove transitory.
Central bankers, while adamant inflation will subside, are starting to concede it may stay higher for longer as a range of issues push up the prices of goods and services and lift future inflation expectations.
Their conclusions will ultimately determine how quickly policymakers unwind the trillions of dollars of monetary stimulus unleashed to ease the COVID-19 crisis.
"Will central bankers be more focused on growth and be a "bit behind the curve"? Or will they be more concerned about inflation and take the punchbowl away quickly?," said Charles Diebel, head of fixed income at asset manager Mediolanum International Funds.
Here are five key elements in the inflation debate:
Reuters Graphics
1/ GASFLATION
European and U.S. gas prices have soared more than 350% and more than 120% respectively this year. Oil is up around 50% and Goldman Sachs expects Brent crude to hit $90 a barrel by end-2021 from around $80 currently. read more
Gas and electricity make up 4.8% of the euro area harmonised-inflation (HICP) basket used by the European Central Bank. Rabobank reckons the price surge is a separate 'shock' that could add 0.15 percentage points (ppts) to its 2.2% euro zone inflation forecast for 2021 and another 0.25 ppts to 2022's 1.8% projection.
Many economists see higher gas prices as here to stay, due to slowing U.S. output, rising costs of carbon emissions permits for polluters and curbs on the usage of dirtier fuels.
In China, where factory inflation hit 9.5% in August, power cuts have slashed output of goods from cement to aluminum.
These outages are a risk to end-users such as those in auto supply chains, Morgan Stanley said, noting "cost-push inflation and tightening upstream supply that could affect downstream production and profits."
Gas prices
2/ CHIPFLATION
Semiconductors, or chips as they are known, are tiny but are having an outsized impact on global factories. At General Motors (GM.N) alone, chip shortages are seen cutting Q3 vehicle deliveries by 200,000, while falling output has sent used-car prices spiraling.
Chip prices have risen and semiconductor giant Taiwan's TSMC (2330.TW) is mulling further hikes of up to 20%. That will ripple across everything from electronics to cars and phones to washing machines. But chipmakers themselves face higher input costs from commodities to power.
"It does seem likely that these semiconductor shortages are going to persist into next year," said Jack Allen-Reynolds, senior European economist at Capital Economics.
Or beyond. Intel's (INTC.O) CEO predicts chips will comprise a fifth of a car's cost by 2030, from 4% in 2019 as vehicles become self-driving or electric.
Reuters Graphics
3/ FOODFLATION
Global food prices rose 30% year-on-year in August, an index compiled by the UN Food and Agriculture Organisation shows -- a sign of broadening price pressures.
While higher agricultural commodity prices are behind the jump, JPMorgan analysts also attribute food price inflation to pandemic-related pressures such as logistics disruptions and transport costs.
In emerging markets, where food makes up a large chunk of inflation baskets, there is more pressure to tighten monetary policy. It is less of a problem for developed nations but price rises look inevitable for items such as soft drinks and snacks.
Reuters Graphics
4/GREENFLATION
Stringent rules to guide the transition to a greener future are blamed for stoking 'greenflation', for instance by shutting out polluting factories, vehicles, ships and mines, in turn reducing the supply of key goods and services.
Prices for European carbon emission allowances, have doubled this year to 65 euros a tonne. A price of 100 euros would lift European retail power prices 12%, adding 35 bps to headline euro zone inflation, Morgan Stanley estimated in June.
There are other examples. Falling ship orders due to upcoming rule changes on fuels may be a tailwind for shipping rates that have already surged 280% this year (.BADI).
NatWest attributes the commodity rally at least partly to the shift to greener technologies raising mining and production costs.
All this may not fully have seeped into inflation calculations. For instance, markets see euro area inflation hitting 2% only after a decade, Danske Bank sees "upside risks to inflation expectations...once implementation of the green transition gathers momentum".
Carbon prices
5/ WAGEFLATION
As prices rise, so do expectations of future inflation among consumers, who accordingly demand pay hikes.
The wage growth picture is mixed. U.S average hourly earnings jumped 0.6% in August and U.S. five-year inflation expectations are running around 3%, surveys show.
In some UK sectors, earnings have risen as much as 30% this year. Euro area labour costs fell in Q2 but inflation as well as inflation expectations are rising.
"Maybe markets are a little bit extreme in their pricing, but I'm not recommending investors should fade that move," Societe Generale senior rates strategist Jorge Garayo said.
"When we go into next year, that will be the big test."
US wages and inflation
Inflation expectations
Reporting by Dhara Ranasinghe and Sujata Rao; Additional reporting by Stefano Rebaudo ; Editing by Kirsten Donovan
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
EU leaders make plans to thrash out gas strategy
World's top miners pledge net-zero emissions
Tesco: shoppers won't pay to go green
PepsiCo hikes revenue forecast as soda demand jumps
GM's new research center to cut battery costs
Micro-shift app gets students super-short jobs
Facebook's AI catches little 'offending content'...
BVTV: Facebook under siege
Rent the Runway's IPO filing shows drop in revenue
EV batteries: major players and their expansion plans
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Macro Matters
Macro Matters · October 6, 2021 · 12:15 AM +06
IMF trims 2021 GDP forecast, citing 'vaccine divide,' inflation
The International Monetary Fund expects global economic growth in 2021 to fall slightly below its July forecast of 6%, IMF chief Kristalina Georgieva said on Tuesday, citing risks associated with debt, inflation and divergent economic trends in the wake of the COVID-19 pandemic.
Macro Matters
U.S. services activity forges ahead; trade deficit races to record high
October 5, 2021
Macro Matters
U.S. factory orders gain steam as manufacturing keeps humming
October 4, 2021
Macro Matters
Euro zone investor morale slumps to 6-month low
October 4, 2021
Macro Matters
In India's city of silk sarees, rising prices pose risk to nascent recovery
October 4, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved