Cookies on FT Sites
We use cookies for a number of reasons, such as keeping FT Sites reliable and secure, personalising content and ads, providing social media features and to analyse how our Sites are used.
Accept & continue
Manage cookies
OPEN SIDE NAVIGATION MENU
OPEN SEARCH BAR
Financial Times
MYFT
HOME
WORLD
US
COMPANIES
TECH
MARKETS
CLIMATE
OPINION
WORK & CAREERS
LIFE & ARTS
HOW TO SPEND IT
Sign In
Subscribe
Latest on Infineon Technologies AG
EU cash alone won’t secure chip supply for region, says Infineon chief
Europe’s largest chipmaker tells car companies to overhaul supply chain
Global car slowdown hits German industrial groups
Infineon/Cypress: robot car calculus Premium
Infineon Technologies AG
Add to myFT
Carmakers order enough chips for record rebound in global production
Europe’s largest semiconductor company Infineon says orders equate to demand for 120m cars a year
Infineon’s new chip factory in Austria. Chief executive Reinhard Ploss says semiconductor order patterns suggest carmakers are aiming to make up for lost production time © Simone Attisani/FT
Share on twitter (opens new window)
Share on facebook (opens new window)
Share on linkedin (opens new window)
Save
Joe Miller in Frankfurt OCTOBER 5 2021
7
Print this page
The volume of semiconductors being ordered by global carmakers would enable them to build a record amount of vehicles when supply constraints ease, order patterns at Europe’s largest chipmaker Infineon suggest.
“If you look at the current demand . . . in the auto industry where we have an excellent transparency to cars manufactured, the current orders look more like 110m to 120m cars [per year],” chief executive Reinhard Ploss told the Financial Times.
The previous record was reached in 2018, when 95m cars and vans were delivered to customers, according to Moody’s.
Since then, the global car market has shrunk, after being hit by an economic slowdown, the pandemic and the semiconductor supply crisis in quick succession.
The current shortage of crucial components, which has led to plants being shut around the world, could lead overall car production to slump to 77m in 2021, according to AlixPartners, almost 8m fewer units than it forecast before the bottlenecks took hold.
But Ploss said ordering patterns suggested carmakers might be looking to make up for lost production time in the coming months.
“There are many bits and pieces from which we can read the total market,” he said, singling out components such as microcontrollers, which are made for specific models and easy to track.
“If these numbers we see are representative, then the total ordering behaviour would represent a car demand between 110m and 120m.”
The Bavarian executive stopped short of suggesting that auto customers were stockpiling to prevent further shortages, but warned it was “very difficult to assess” whether this demand would be sustained once the semiconductor crisis eased.
“A significant portion [of the orders] is a catch-up and a certain portion is really added demand by buyers,” he said.
Recommended
Inside BusinessKathrin Hille
No easy options to ease semiconductor squeeze
Separately on Tuesday, Infineon said it expected revenues for the 2022 fiscal year to rise by a “mid-teens percentage”, assuming exchange rates remained stable, with a “further margin uplift”.
The German group also announced it would invest a total of €2.4bn during the year, predominantly in updating equipment, up from a total of €1.6bn in 2021.
The former Siemens company last month opened Europe’s newest semiconductor plant in Villach, Austria, which will produce power chips primarily for auto customers.
While it was “very likely” that there would be a “phase of strong growth in semiconductors”, Ploss warned that the industry “will definitely not stay on the growth momentum we see today, which is, I think, driven by some specialist topic[s]”.
The auto industry accounts for about 8 per cent of the total semiconductor market, but more than 40 per cent of Infineon’s revenues.
Get alerts on when a new story is published
Get alerts
Copyright The Financial Times Limited 2021. All rights reserved.
Reuse this content
(opens in new window)
Comments
Jump to comments section
Latest on Infineon Technologies AG
Infineon Technologies AG
EU cash alone won’t secure chip supply for region, says Infineon chief
Semiconductors
Europe’s largest chipmaker tells car companies to overhaul supply chain
Automobiles
Global car slowdown hits German industrial groups
LexInfineon Technologies AG
Infineon/Cypress: robot car calculus Premium
Infineon Technologies AG
Chipmaker Infineon agrees €9bn deal for US rival Cypress
Infineon Technologies AG
US chipmakers slide after Germany’s Infineon issues profit warning
Infineon Technologies AG
Chipmaker Infineon downgrades 2019 growth on ‘challenging’ market
European companies
Add to myFT
Semiconductors
Add to myFT
Automobiles
Add to myFT
Infineon Technologies AG
Add to myFT
Joe Miller
Add to myFT
Feedback
Useful links
Support
View Site Tips
Help Centre
Contact Us
About Us
Accessibility
myFT Tour
Careers
Legal & Privacy
Terms & Conditions
Privacy Policy
Cookies
Copyright
Slavery Statement & Policies
Services
Share News Tips Securely
Individual Subscriptions
Group Subscriptions
Republishing
Contracts & Tenders
Executive Job Search
Advertise with the FT
Follow the FT on Twitter
FT Transact
Secondary Schools
Tools
Portfolio
Today's Newspaper (ePaper)
Alerts Hub
Business School Rankings
Enterprise Tools
News feed
Newsletters
Currency Converter
Community & Events
FT Community
FT Live
FT Forums
Board Director Programme
More from the FT Group
Markets data delayed by at least 15 minutes. © THE FINANCIAL TIMES LTD 2021. FT and ‘Financial Times’ are trademarks of The Financial Times Ltd.
The Financial Times and its journalism are subject to a self-regulation regime under the FT Editorial Code of Practice.