Front Page
Taiwan News
Business
Editorials
Sports
World News
Features
Bilingual Pages
Search
Home Front Page
Tue, Oct 05, 2021 page1
Peace crucial to chip supply: economics minister
Bloomberg
Peace in the Taiwan Strait is key to Taiwan’s ability to ensure a continuous supply of the chips needed to power a wide range of products from vehicles to smartphones, Minister of Economic Affairs Wang Mei-hua (王美花) said.
Taipei is seeking to rally political support as China ramps up its aggression toward Taiwan. Chinese warplanes made a record 93 flights close to Taiwan over a three-day period starting on Friday, prompting the US Department of State to express concern and urge China to cease its “provocative” actions.
“Taiwan has helped foster a great chip manufacturing ecosystem with three decades of efforts against the backdrop of globalization,” Wang said in an interview on Friday last week. “The global community should take Taiwan’s security more seriously so Taiwan can continue to provide stable service to everyone and be a very good partner to everyone.”
Minister of Economic Affairs Wang Mei-hua speaks during an interview in Taipei on Thursday last week.
Photo: Ann Wang, Reuters
Wang’s comments highlight the increasingly politicized nature of semiconductors as governments around the world scramble to secure sufficient chips from Taiwan to accelerate an economic rebound post-COVID-19.
Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co (TSMC, 台積電) boasts a 53 percent share of the contract chipmaking market, fueling concern that any instability in the Taiwan Strait could cut off supply of chips used by hundreds of companies. TSMC chairman Mark Liu (劉德音) in July also called for peace in the region to prevent disruptions to the supply chain.
The heavy reliance on TSMC and its local peers has spurred governments in the US, the EU, Japan and China to mull bolstering their own domestic chip industries. US President Joe Biden’s administration last month stepped up pressure on companies to disclose details of their supply-and-demand structures, as the global chip shortage continued to wreak havoc on many industries, including automaking.
Intel Corp CEO Pat Gelsinger said that the US government should prioritize support to domestic US chipmakers, characterizing foreign supply chains as “insecure.”
Wang dismissed concerns that companies around the world are too dependent on Taiwan, saying that the country focuses mostly on chip fabrication within the complex global semiconductor supply chain.
It still needs equipment and materials from other countries, such as gear from US-based Applied Materials Inc and the Netherlands’ ASML Holding NV, which has a monopoly on extreme ultraviolet (EUV) lithography systems required for manufacturing the most cutting-edge chips, she said.
“We can buy EUV machines only from ASML. Are we going to say that it is too risky for us to be so dependent on ASML?” Wang said. “Taiwan has built a professional and reliable ecosystem over a long period of time, so many chip designers end up getting Taiwan to make the chips. It is really because Taiwan has a very efficient production system. Taiwan actually grows and thrives together with global equipment and material suppliers.”
Taiwanese chipmakers are already doing their part to alleviate shortages plaguing the global automotive industry, she said, with TSMC boosting output of automotive microcontrollers by 60 percent from last year. It is also spending US$100 billion to expand manufacturing over three years.
However, chip packaging and testing services in Malaysia have been affected by lockdowns, and that is causing the current bottleneck in supply, she said.
TSMC produces a significant portion of the semiconductors needed by major auto chip suppliers such as Infineon Technologies AG, NXP Semiconductors NV and Japan’s Renesas Electronics Corp, companies that automakers around the world depend on for essential electronic components for their vehicles.
To mitigate US national security concerns, TSMC is building a US$12 billion plant in Arizona with the goal of starting production by 2024. The company is also considering building a fab in Japan and studying the feasibility of a creating a plant in Germany. It is also adding capacity in a fab in Nanjing, China.
At home, the Taiwanese government is making efforts to provide TSMC with adequate water and electricity supply in anticipation of the chipmaker’s future needs, Wang said.
TSMC has pledged to using 100 percent renewable energy and producing zero indirect carbon emissions from electricity consumption by 2025.
“The chip industry has propped up Taiwan’s economy. It is a key pillar to Taiwan’s economic security and overall security,” Wang said. “We are working hard to ensure that Taiwan will continue to be a reliable partner for everyone to collaborate with.”
Comments will be moderated. Keep comments relevant to the article. Remarks containing abusive and obscene language, personal attacks of any kind or promotion will be removed and the user banned. Final decision will be at the discretion of the Taipei Times.
Most Popular
1
US can ‘tamp down’ attack on Taiwan: official
2
Taiwan in Time: The China Airlines that was never based in China
3
Tsai thankful for support in spat at freediving body
4
Su slams PRC’s incursions with 38 jets
5
Academia Sinica might change ‘confusing’ name
You might also like
US can ‘tamp down’ attack on Taiwan: official
2021-10-03
The US is capable of “tamping down” China in the event of an invasion of Taiwan, US Deputy Secretary of Defense Kathleen Hicks said on Friday. The US remains committed to boosting Taiwan’s defensive capabilities, she told an online forum hosted by the Center for Strategic and International Studies. Asked about what the US would do should China attack Taiwan, Hicks said that Washington is watching the situation in the region carefully “day to day.” “We have a significant amount of capability forward in the region to tamp down any such potential,” Hicks said. “We have good relations, of course, with Taiwan. We
Tsai thankful for support in spat at freediving body
2021-10-02
NATIONAL FLAG REMOVED: Ten participating nations in an international championship asked to also have their flags removed after Taiwan had been singled out President Tsai Ing-wen (蔡英文) yesterday thanked the nations that supported Taiwan when the world’s largest freediving organization removed the national flag during a live feed after China’s official broadcaster complained. The International Association for the Development of Apnea (AIDA) removed Taiwan’s flag during a live broadcast of the Individual Depth Freediving World Championship in Cyprus on Tuesday, in which five Taiwanese divers competed. The organization said that it removed the flag after the broadcaster complained that displaying the flag would affect its broadcast of the event, leaving Taiwan as the only one among the 44 participating nations without a flag. The organization on
Su slams PRC’s incursions with 38 jets
2021-10-03
‘DAMAGING PEACE’: Calling the forays into Taiwan’s air defense identification zone ‘wanton,’ Su said the international community is increasingly renouncing the bullying Premier Su Tseng-chang (蘇貞昌) yesterday criticized China after 38 of its military aircraft crossed into Taiwan’s air defense identification zone (ADIZ) on Friday, the most in a single day since Taiwan began issuing a tally on such incursions in September last year. On Friday evening, the Ministry of National Defense reported that 25 Chinese planes had crossed into the nation’s southeastern ADIZ, between Taiwan proper and the Pratas Islands (Dongsha Island, 東沙群島). It identified the planes as 18 J-16 fighter jets, four SU-30 fighters, two H-6 bombers and one Y-8 anti-submarine warfare plane. Late on Friday night, the ministry reported that 13
Academia Sinica might change ‘confusing’ name
2021-10-04
COMMITTEE FINDINGS: Most people approved of adding ‘Taiwan’ to the end of the name, which translates to ‘Chinese Academy’ in English Academia Sinica members are concerned the institution’s widely used Latin name might cause foreign researchers to mistakenly assume it is based in China, and it is deliberating a new name. The institution plans to raise the issue at the legislature today, sources said, adding that Democratic Progressive Party Legislator Fan Yun (范雲) had also brought the issue up with Academia Sinica President James Liao (廖俊智) during a meeting of the legislature’s Education and Culture Committee in March last year. Academia Sinica has sometimes been confused with the Chinese Academy of Sciences, as its Latin name translates to “Chinese Academy” in English,
By Chien Hui-ju and William Hetherington
Front Page
Taiwan News
Business
Editorials
Sports
World News
Features
Bilingual Pages
About Us
Employment
Contact Us
RSS
Copyright © 1999-2021 The Taipei Times. All rights reserved.