Becker's Healthcare: Hospital ASC Spine Clinical Health IT CFO Dental + DSO Payer Career Center
 1.800.417.2035  Email Us
Subscribe


SEARCH
  E-Newsletters
Conferences
Virtual Conferences
Webinars
Whitepapers
Podcasts
Print Issue
Multimedia
Lists
About Us
Artificial Intelligence
Consumerism
Cybersecurity
Data Analytics
Digital Marketing
Digital Transformation
EHRs / Interoperability
Medical devicemakers plea for computer chips in global shortage: 6 things to know
Hannah Mitchell - Monday, October 4th, 2021 Print  | Email
Share
Listen
TEXT
Medical devicemakers are highlighting that their products are life-saving in a global chip shortage where competition is steep, according to an Oct. 3 report by The Wall Street Journal.
Six things to know:
Some hospitals are experiencing monthslong delays for CT scanners, telemetry monitors, defibrillators and more as lead times for chips increased from three months to 15 months, the Journal reported.

Mike Arena, vice president of operations for Fujifilm SonoSite, which makes portable ultrasound machines, told the Journal when his company goes to chipmaker executives, they want to help. "Nobody wants to be the person who shuts down critical medical devices in the middle of COVID," he said.

Mr. Arena told the Journal that medical devicemakers are competing for parts against companies that generate hundreds of millions of dollars in revenue. Fujifilm recently paid a broker $65 for a part that usually costs $1.49, because chips are in short supply.

"What I’m asking them is to take some components from your higher-revenue customers and give some to me so you can do something good for the world,"  Mr. Arena told the Journal.

Boston Scientific is also leveraging its product importance for patients when competing for chip allocation. By doing so, the medical device manufacturer has kept up with demand, but the company is "flying closer to the sun than [it would] like to see,'' Brad Sorenson, senior vice president of supply chain, told the Journal.

Mick Farrell, CEO of ResMed, which makes ventilators and other breathing aids, is leading with a human element to secure chips. He tells chipmakers, "Every single chip you give me gives the gift of breath to a person suffocating," the Journal reported.
Copyright © 2021 Becker's Healthcare. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy. Cookie Policy. Linking and Reprinting Policy.
Subscribe to the Becker's Hospital Review newsletter for the latest in healthcare news!
Email*

You can unsubscribe from these communications at any time. For more information, please review our Privacy Policy.
OR
Register with Facebook
Register with LinkedIn
Invite a Friend

    Featured Whitepapers
C-suite toolkit: Real-world guidance for addressing health disparities
Digital transformation for population health: Empower clinicians, improve outcomes and optimize reimbursement with intelligent automation
How digital workflows benefit clinicians, save hospitals money
Standardizing remote vendor access ensures HIPAA compliance. Here's how Medical Center Hospital did it.
How EHRs can thrive amid the rapidly changing healthcare landscape
How to address the patient affordability crisis: 5 transformative benefits of new tech + a Geisinger case study
It's time to prepare for new CMS glycemic management measures — Insights on reducing hypoglycemia and hyperglycemia
The healthcare leader's guide to no-code workflow automation
2021 Retirement Survey Report — Supporting healthcare workers' future amid a pandemic
How workflow efficiency keeps hospitals prepared for an uncertain future
Featured Webinars
Anesthesia is a key opportunity to deliver positive experiences in your ASC — Here's how.
Cloud migration simplified: Strategies to optimize enterprise imaging performance
Personalization at the heart of the patient journey
Mandates, boosters and pediatric vaccines: How to successfully manage the next phase of COVID-19 vaccination
Patient safety in spine surgery: Best practices for eliminating preventable SSIs
Why patients don't pay: What providers should know
The new care standard: Leveraging solutions that expand scope and reach
Drive financial savings by optimizing medical device inventory — Here's how
Reshifting providers' focus to patient care: How to make the most of mobile workflows
Clinical research teams are increasingly using imaging real world data - Here's how and why
Becker's Websites
Hospital
ASC
Spine
Clinical
Health IT
CFO
Dental + DSO
Payer
  Virtual Learning
Webinars
Whitepapers
Podcasts
Conferences
Health IT + Revenue Cycle Conference
ASC Annual Meeting: The Business and Operations of ASCs
CEO + CFO Roundtable
Upcoming
Contact Us
1.800.417.2035
becker@beckershealthcare.com
Copyright © 2021 Becker's Healthcare. All Rights Reserved. Privacy Policy. Cookie Policy. Linking and Reprinting Policy.