Skip to main content
Search form
Search this site
Search
Advertising Subscribe Classifieds
Home
Government
Business
Technology
Equipment
Safety
Fuel
Logistics
Autonomous
Top 100/Top 50
More
Share
8
  19
  1
  116
  print
BusinessTechnologyEquipment
Yueqi Yang | Bloomberg News
September 20, 2021 10:15 AM, EDT
GM Plans ‘Substantial Shifts’ in Supply Chain as Chip Shortage Persists
Matt Rourke/Associated Press
[Stay on top of transportation news: Get TTNews in your inbox.]
General Motors Co. is planning to revamp its supply chain as the pandemic-triggered chip shortage and rising demand for chip-intensive vehicles have demonstrated the need for an overhaul.
The Detroit-based carmaker will make “substantial shifts” in its supply chain, CEO Mary Barra said Sept. 17 in a live-streamed discussion with Delta Air Lines Inc. CEO Ed Bastian. While GM generally doesn’t buy chips directly, the company is now “building direct relationships” with manufacturers.
“It’s a solvable problem, but it’s going to be here a little longer,” Barra said.
Barra
The semiconductor shortage reflects idiosyncrasies of the global economy in the pandemic and planning decisions made by automakers in the early days of the crisis. But, Barra said, the challenge is also demand-based, with a shift in consumer preferences for vehicles that are becoming more of a software platform.
“We didn’t estimate demand right at the beginning; we’re long past that now even with the long lead time with chips,” Barra said. Demand for vehicles would be higher if the company had enough chips right now, she said.
GM has been working deeper into the tiered supply chain as it seeks a longer-term solution to shortages, Barra said. As the semiconductor crunch persists, automakers are building closer ties with chip companies such as Intel Corp., Qualcomm Inc. and Nvidia Corp. to monitor supply.
U.S. production of new vehicles this fall will continue to be constrained by the chip shortage and the spread of COVID-19 in Southeast Asia. On Sept. 16, IHS Markit slashed its vehicle production forecast for this year by 6.2%, or 5.02 million vehicles, the biggest decrease to the outlook since the chip shortage emerged.
Want more news? Listen to today's daily briefing below or go here for more info:
  More Articles About: GM
Related Articles
GM’s Mary Barra Boosts Stock as Tech Story Gains Credibility
GM Vows to Surpass Tesla in Electric Vehicle Sales
GM: New Batteries Cut Electric Car Costs, Increase Range
Follow Us
Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn This site (RSS)
Trending
1
Container Crisis Gets So Bad, Coca-Cola Switches to Bulk Freight
2
Christmas at Risk as Supply Chain Tightens
3
September Class 8 Orders Decline
4
Average Price of Diesel Surges 7.1¢ to $3.477 a Gallon
5
Many Tesla Short Sellers Are Giving Up
Newsletter Signup
Email Address
Submit
Subscribe to Transport Topics
Subscribe Gift a Subscription
Hot Topics
supply chain
Joe Biden
capitol agenda
Infrastructure
Coca-Cola
Tweets by TransportTopics
Follow us on
Facebook Twitter YouTube LinkedIn This site (RSS)
950 N Glebe Road Suite 210, Arlington, VA 22203 703-838-1770
AboutContact Us
StaffAdvertisingClassifieds
Resources
Customer Service
© 2021 Transport Topics All rights reserved. | Privacy Policy