Skip to content
News
First Alert Weather
Sports
School Zone
Vaccine Tracker & COVID-19
Search
Flood Warning Is In Effect
Dismiss Weather Alerts Alerts Bar
ADVERTISEMENT
GM plant gets fresh shipment of Microchips
While the chips are down, GM has found a way to get production back up. At least for now.
By Kaylie Crowe
Published: Oct. 5, 2021 at 2:45 AM GMT+6
Share on FacebookEmail This LinkShare on TwitterShare on PinterestShare on LinkedIn
CORRECTION: Satya Veerapaneni’s name was misspelled as ‘Satya Verapaneni’ in the original release of this article. It has been updated with that correction made.
LANSING, Mich. (WILX) - General Motors dealers will start seeing Chevy Traverses and Buick Enclaves showing up on their lots again. That’s because the Delta Township plant has a new supply of microchips.
GM officials told News 10 the thousands of cars that were waiting for chips are now being completed and being sent to dealerships. But, while the plant is back to work, it’s not back to where they were before the shortage.
Satya Veerapaneni is the Executive Director for GM’s Delta Township Plant.
“The supply condition is extremely dynamic, and the conditions are fluid. I think the whole industry is going to take time to stabilize,” Veerapaneni.
GM staff say they always have to prepare for tomorrow, since nothing is guaranteed as the chip shortage plays out.
Jeff Kosloski is a Shop Chairperson and a fourth-generation GM employee. He says he’s never seen a shortage like this before, but he has seen how seemingly small problems affect the automakers.
“It’s never consistent, it’s cynical with the economy,” Kosloski said, “We’ve seen usually auto industry and trades work seems to be affected sooner when the economy’s not doing well.”
Cars that once filled MSU parking lots waiting for chips are now being delivered to dealerships. Shaheen Chevrolet in Lansing confirmed it’s going to be getting some. GM did not specify which dealers are being prioritized, saying only that it’s trying to spread out its supply of chips where they’re most needed.
Veerapaneni said, “We have a global purchasing team working with engineering, looking at the different product lines. Allocate the required chips to the facilities so we can bring one facility at a time, and based on that allocation we have received the chips we need to produce and ship our product.”
GM isn’t saying how many microchips it has or where they came from. It will only say it doesn’t anticipate another shutdown. Experts believe the global chip shortage is going to last deep into next year.
Copyright 2021 WILX. All rights reserved.
Subscribe to our News 10 newsletter and receive the latest local news and weather straight to your email every morning.
Sponsored Stories
Dhaka : Online Jobs in the USA May Pay More Than You Think
Sponsored Listings
Recommended For You
Woman, 18, shot by school safety officer being taken off life support
Sponsored Stories
Here's How These Viral Shorts Look (and Feel) on 11 Different Bodies
Outdoor Voices
Recommended For You
High school football player dies after suffering a serious head injury
Sponsored Stories
Online Jobs in the USA May Pay More Than You Think
Find Jobs Online | Search Ads
Recommended For You
University of Michigan president Schlissel stepping down early
Sponsored Stories
Your 2021 Future - Pick Your Card
m.blancheofsaintandre.com
Most Read
Tuesday morning crash on US-127 leaves 68-year-old dead
Lansing Police searching for missing 15-year-old
Michigan man locked up after Supreme Court lockdown
Jackson man found guilty in murder trial
Latest News
Mid-Michigan theft, fraud spree ends in two arrests
Protesters in Howell voice strong opposition to Biden spending plan
Michigan Senate approves bill with voting restrictions
In budget turning point, Biden conceding smaller price tag
MSU professor facing sexual assault charges
News
First Alert Weather
Sports
Livestream
Contact Us
WILX
500 American Road
Lansing, MI 48911
(517) 393-0110
Public Inspection File
FCC-PublicFile@wilx.com - (517) 393-0110
Terms of Service
Privacy Policy
EEO Statement
FCC Applications
Advertising
A Gray Media Group, Inc. Station - © 2002-2021 Gray Television, Inc.