Skip to main content
Sister Publication Links
Automotive News Automobilwoche Automotive News Canada Automotive News China
.st0{fill:#171F69;} .st1{fill:#FFCD05;}
Subscribe
SUBSCRIBE NEWSLETTERS LOGIN
HOME
FEATURES
OPINION
PHOTOS
PODCASTS
CAR CUTAWAYS
EVENTS
MORE
Breadcrumb
Home
Automakers
October 04, 2021 07:05 AM
Audi CEO sees chip shortage as 'perfect storm'
Dealing with semiconductor supply crunch is 'day-to-day troubleshooting process,' Duesmann says
Reuters
TWEET
SHARE
SHARE
EMAIL
PRINT
Production of the Audi A3 is pictured in Ingolstadt, Germany.
FRANKFURT -- Audi, Volkswagen Group's biggest profit contributor, has to troubleshoot on a day-to-day basis to tackle an ongoing shortage of auto chips, CEO Markus Duesmann said.
"We had a very strong first half in 2021. We do expect a much weaker second half. We really have trouble," Markus Duesmann told Reuters, calling the situation "a perfect storm".
Duesmann's comments highlight the problems global automakers are facing in navigating a global chip supply crunch that has hit car production around the world. But while the car industry's vehicle sales have suffered it has softened the blow through price increases that have boosted margins.
Audi in July said it had been unable to build a mid-five-digit number of cars in the first half of the year. But its profit margin in the period surged to 10.7 percent, even surpassing the 8 percent in 2019 before the pandemic struck.
"We are dealing with it pretty well I would say," said Duesmann, who also sits on the management board of VW Group. He said the group was seeking closer ties with chipmakers and that the automaker would emerge stronger from the crisis.
"But at the moment it's a day-to-day troubleshooting process," he said.
Audi, which accounted for more than a quarter of VW's first-half operating profit, has embarked on an ambitious shift towards battery-powered vehicles, meaning all new models it will release from 2026 will be full electric.
CONTENT FROM IHS MARKIT
Automotive Research and Analysis
Analysis and comments from the automotive team at IHS Markit on last week’s proposed greenhouse gas emission standards announced by the US EPA.
READ MORE
Meantime, production of internal combustion engines will be gradually phased out up to 2033.
EV transition could happen quickly, Duesmann says.
  Audi's finance chief, Juergen Rittersberger, in August said it would only take 2-3 years before profitability of electric vehicles would match that of combustion engine cars.
Duesmann thinks this could happen even more quickly.
"The point where we earn as much money with electric cars as with combustion engine cars is now, or ... next year, 2023. They are very even now, the prices," Duesmann said.
Apart from efforts to challenge Tesla and become the biggest seller of EVs, VW is also doubling down on efforts to develop software, which CEO Herbert Diess said is the industry's real gamechanger.
Duesmann, who took over as Audi CEO last year, has previously said that VW would make most of the automotive software needed for the group's transformation on its own and that it was too early to think about partnerships.
"Because at the moment ... it would take away speed, it would add complexity," Duesmann said. "Certainly, we could share our software platform with other automotive companies but that is more mid-term, long-term ... 5-10 years."
Duesmann, a former BMW executive, now also has responsibility for luxury brands Lamborghini, Ducati and Bentley which have been brought under the Audi roof.
The 52-year-old Ducati enthusiast brushed off recurring speculation that one of them could be sold, even though there was regular outside interest.
"These brands ... are very valuable very profitable brands, where we can even expand the synergy level in the future," Duesmann said. "There are no plans whatsoever to get rid of them."
RELATED ARTICLE
Why margin-boosting lessons learned in H1 should continue to pay dividends
VW extends production cuts at Wolfsburg plant until mid-October
RECOMMENDED FOR YOU
Alfa Romeo to launch new model every year to 2026; Lancia to expand beyond Italy
GM to offer hands-free city driving in 2023 with Ultra Cruise
VW CEO Diess takes to Twitter to promote cycling
Sponsored Content: MSX VP on what’s next for automotive retail in Europe
SIGN UP FOR FREE NEWSLETTERS
Europe Breaking News Alerts (as needed)
Europe Daily Summary (weekdays)
The Long Read (monthly)
Interview of the Month (monthly)
Focus on Mobility (monthly)
Focus on Electrification (monthly)
Supplier Spotlight (monthly)
Latest Launches (monthly)
Segment Analysis (monthly)
Europe By The Numbers (monthly)
EMAIL ADDRESS
You can unsubscribe at any time through links in these emails. For more information, see our Privacy Policy.
GET FREE NEWSLETTERS
Sign up and get the best of Automotive News Europe delivered straight to your email inbox, free of charge. Choose your news – we will deliver.
Email Address
You can unsubscribe at any time through links in these emails. For more information, see our Privacy Policy.
SUBSCRIBE TODAY
Get 24/7 access to in-depth, authoritative coverage of the auto industry from a global team of reporters and editors covering the news that’s vital to your business.
SUBSCRIBE NOW
CONNECT WITH US
Twitter
Facebook
LinkedIn
Instagram
Founded in 1996, Automotive News Europe is the preferred information source for decision-makers and opinion leaders operating in Europe.
.st0{fill:#171F69;} .st1{fill:#FFCD05;}
CONTACT US
1155 Gratiot Avenue
Detroit MI  48207-2997
Tel: +1 877-812-1584
Email Us
ISSN 2643-6590 (print)
ISSN 2643-6604 (online)
  RESOURCES
About us
Contact Us
Advertise with us
Advertise with Us
Ad Choices
Sitemap
AWARDS
Rising Stars
Eurostars
Leading Women
LEGAL
Terms and Conditions
Privacy Policy
Privacy Request
Copyright © 1996-2021. Crain Communications, Inc. All Rights Reserved.
This window will close in Seconds