  Listen Live
Schedule
Programs + Podcasts
Latest Coverage
CitySpace
Membership
Donate Your Car
Newsletters
Coronavirus Coverage
On Point
Here & Now
Radio Boston
Business
Health
Environment
Education
Arts & Culture
Investigations
Cognoscenti
Listen Live: Radio Boston
On Point
Donate
Search
ADVERTISEMENT
 What America's supply chain shortages mean for your buying, from phones to cars
47:23
Download
October 04, 2021
Annie SinsabaughMeghna ChakrabartiTwitter
The CMA CGM Marco Polo,an ultra-large container vessel with a maximum capacity of 16,022 twenty-foot equivalent units, passes under the Verrazzano-Narrows Bridge. (TIMOTHY A. CLARY/AFP via Getty Images)
Cars. Smartphones. Appliances.
An international chip shortage is squeezing supply chains and inventory.
Our journalism helps people make sense of the world. It’s a catalyst for growth, learning, and the special kind of joy that only comes from public media — and it’s free. Help us stay accessible. Support WBUR's Mission.
How did this happen? And when will it end?
“There’s something just disconcerting about something suddenly not being available," Amy Davidson Sorkin says. "And when suddenly things are not getting to willing buyers from willing sellers, something seems off. You wonder where else the vulnerabilities are.”
Today, On Point: What America's supply chain shortages means for your buying.
Guests
Dr. Willy Shih, professor of management practice in business administration at Harvard Business School. (@WillyShih_atHBS)
Also Featured
Will Douglas Heaven, senior editor at MIT Technology Review.
Wyatt Olsen, CEO of Ultraviolet Audio Video in Santa Barbara, California.
Transcript: 'The story of a computer chip'
MEGHNA CHAKRABARTI: The semi-conductor chip. It's in your new phone, car, game console, kitchen appliances … or at least would be, if there weren’t a global shortage of these tiny tech wonders.
CHAKRABARTI: To better understand why you can’t buy that new car or phone right now, it’s worth understanding how the chip comes into being in the first place, under the best of circumstances.
CHAKRABARTI: And that story begins in the ground. With quartz, a mineral composed of silicon dioxide.
WILL DOUGLAS HEAVEN: The silicon that comes out of the ground probably crisscrosses the world two or three times before it ends up in your phone.
CHAKRABARTI: That’s Will Douglas Heaven. He’s a senior editor at MIT Technology Review.
HEAVEN: So the cool thing that I think a lot of people don't know ... is that although computer chips are everywhere, I mean, there are few places in the world that you'll be far from a computer chip. But every single one of those chips is made from this material silicon. And there aren't actually that many places in the world where silicon is found in the ground pure enough to use to make computer chips.
DOUGLAS HEAVEN: And there's one place in particular called Spruce Pine, that's a town in North Carolina. And there's a mine there where silica is found in sort of particularly pure quantities. That had been chopped away for ages, because what people were actually after for centuries was gemstones and this stuff called mica, which is used in paint. And it was only when the semiconductor industry took off in the 1980s that suddenly this quartz had new value and incredible value.
CHAKRABARTI: Spruce Pine, North Carolina. Population, about 2,200. Humans have been mining here for more than 2,000 years, as evidenced by Native tribes who dug down 100 feet to pull mica from the ground millennia ago. The mica was later used in several of Thomas Edison’s inventions, also in paint, as you heard. And the quartz extracted from the mines now is the purest in the world. So as Robin Townsend of the local chamber of commerce says, “If you have a computer, you have a little slice of Spruce Pine.” Will Douglas Heaven describes how they get the quartz out of the ground.
HEAVEN: And then these quartz rocks are dug up with machines and explosives, and then they're put into a crusher which crunches these rocks up into gravel. That gravel then goes to a processing plant where the quartz gravel is ground down further into a fine sand.
CHAKRABARTI: The sand is processed to separate out and refine the silicon.
HEAVEN: And it's been bagged up and and sent off to the next stage.
CHAKRABARTI: That next stage is where the pure elemental silicon starts looking like something more familiar. And there are only a few facilities around the world where this happens – such as SUMCO in Japan. Or Siltronic AG in Germany.
HEAVEN: The powder is melted down into cylinders. So you imagine a sort of a salami. And then we're getting close to what people would recognize as chips. This sort of ... cylinder is then finally sliced into wafers like you're chopping a cucumber or a salami. So you end up with these round thin disks.
CHAKRABARTI: And then, they’re shipped off again, to a factory that makes the actual chips. This could be in Austin, Texas. Incheon, South Korea. Hsinchu, Taiwan. Or even Hillsboro, Oregon.
HEAVEN: Once you get up to making chips themselves, which get printed onto this thin disk. This is extremely delicate, the conditions need to be sort of like lab conditions. You see pictures of workers in these chip factories wearing what looked like hazmat suits. You just can't have any kind of contamination. No dust, anything like that, because that will completely wreck the the mine circuitry on the chips that you’re trying to print on. And so any kind of little bit of dust that got into that would completely ruin it. Which is kind of cool. We've gone from the messy quarry with the dust and explosions, all the way now to sort of super, super clean labs, which is where the chips get made.
CHAKRABARTI: And as the chips get made, new materials are printed onto the wafers. These materials have their own complex supply chains as well. Things like copper, which might come from Chile. Or aluminum, which might come from China. Or boron, which might come from Turkey.
CHAKRABARTI: Then, the wafer is sent to yet another factory for testing, where microscopic probes assess whether the chip is working as required. They’re cut apart and put into packages — adding even more materials to the process.
CHAKRABARTI: And then they’re shipped off again ... to other factories where they are finally put them on circuit boards. And those factories are usually not in the same places as where the chip makes its final stop: assembly into cars, computers, phones and appliances.
From The Reading List
Forbes: "About That White House Meeting To Discuss The Semiconductor Supply Chain" — "The White House is hosting a virtual summit today to discuss the semiconductor supply chain."
The New Yorker: "The Supply Chain Mystery"  — "A good way to get people talking, in this lingering pandemic era, is to ask whether they have tried to rent a car lately."
This program aired on October 4, 2021.
Related:
So, You Are Shopping For A Car At A Terrible Time. Here's What To Keep In Mind
The Global Supply Chain Is Still A Mess. When Will It Get Better? : Consider This from NPR
Healthy Food Hard To Come By At Schools Across The U.S. Amid Supply Chain Crisis
Annie Sinsabaugh Freelance Producer, On Point
Annie Sinsabaugh is a freelance producer for On Point.
More…
Meghna Chakrabarti Twitter Host, On Point
Meghna Chakrabarti is the host of On Point.
More…
ADVERTISEMENT
 More from On Point
Your brain on authoritarianism: The inside forces that drive people to turn on democracy
The brain, behavior and authoritarianism. Understanding the social and neurological forces that drive people to turn their backs on democracy.
On Point47:26Oct 6, 2021
What compromise may look like for the Democrats’ 'Build Back Better' plan
The price tag for the Democrats’ social spending bill may be shrinking – but the needs of Americans are not. We hear what stays in the bill, what goes and...
On Point47:26Oct 5, 2021
The Prime Effect: Live from CitySpace
On Point host Meghna Chakrabarti and senior editor Dorey Scheimer hot a live behind-the-scenes look at the series "The Prime Effect."
On Point72:59Oct 1, 2021
Amazon: The Prime Effect, Part VIII
Amazon has transformed almost every business sector it's entered, from retail to cloud computing. Where will Amazon go next? Hear the eighth episode in our series The Prime Effect.
On Point47:31Oct 1, 2021
Amazon: The Prime Effect, Part VII
Surveillance and the world's largest retailer. In the seventh episode of "The Prime Effect," learn what Amazon knows about your digital and physical life.
On Point47:32Oct 1, 2021
Amazon: The Prime Effect, Part VI
In the sixth episode of our series "The Prime Effect," we look at Amazon's labor force, and how, someday, it could be changing how you work.
On Point51:00Oct 1, 2021
Amazon: The Prime Effect, Part V
The fifth episode of our series The Prime Effect takes a look inside the world's largest online retailer and its impact on planet earth.
On Point47:32Oct 1, 2021
Attempts to overthrow the presidential election threaten democracy. What can we do about it?
There’s new information on just how hard the Trump administration tried to overthrow the 2020 election. How healthy is the state of our democracy?
On Point48:23Oct 1, 2021
ADVERTISEMENT
 Multi-Level Marketing Companies And The Disinformation They Sell
Multi-level marketing distributors claim to sell life-changing products. They’re also selling something else -- misleading product claims and disinformation.
On Point47:20Sep 30, 2021
Will Infighting Upend The Democratic Party's Goals?
Democrats in Washington are divided again. Will Democrats let party infighting destroy their own, and President Biden's, ambitious goals?
On Point47:18Sep 29, 2021
The College Educators Behind The Push To Speak Freely On Campus
Steven Salaita was a rising star in the field of American Indian studies. In the fall of 2012, he applied for a job at the University of Illinois. Then, he...
On Point47:13Sep 28, 2021
The Social And Economic Crisis Facing Men In America
College enrollment may be an indicator of a growing economic and social crisis among American men. We hear from researchers who say American democracy depends on doing something about it.
On Point47:26Sep 27, 2021
Amazon: The Prime Effect, Part IV
If you use Slack at work, Zoom for school, or binge watch Netflix at home, guess what? You’re also using Amazon. 
On Point47:28Sep 24, 2021
Amazon: The Prime Effect, Part III
In Part III of our Amazon series, a look at the peaks and pits of Amazon's marketplace for retail.
On Point47:16Sep 24, 2021
Amazon: The Prime Effect, Part II
Who is Jeff Bezos? In Part II of our series The Prime Effect, we hear what the creation of Alexa tells us about the man who built Amazon.
On Point47:17Sep 24, 2021
Amazon: The Prime Effect, Part I
It’s not just a retailer. Part I in our series on Amazon, what it is and what power it has.
On Point47:27Sep 24, 2021
Support WBUR
Donate Your Car
Make A Donation
Become A Member
Become A Sponsor
Programming
Ways To Listen
On-Air Schedule
Download Our App
Community
Events @ CitySpace
Volunteer
Newsletters
About WBUR
Who We Are
Inside WBUR
Contact Us
Meet The Staff
Jobs & Internships
FCC Public File
© Copyright WBUR 2021
Connect with WBURTwitterfacebookMore