BOSS Magazine
MENU
SUBSCRIBE SEARCH
EV truck startup Rivian to make own semiconductor chips
Global chip shortage pushes Rivian to take action Electric vehicle truck startup Rivian Automotive is planning on building its own battery cells, according to its U.S. initial public offering filed last week.    Rivian, which currently gets the batteries it...
Reading Time: 2 minutes
Global chip shortage pushes Rivian to take action
Electric vehicle truck startup Rivian Automotive is planning on building its own battery cells, according to its U.S. initial public offering filed last week.   
An employee performs a quality inspection on the General Assembly line at Rivian’s manufacturing plant in Normal, IL. Photo Courtesy Rivian Automative
Rivian, which currently gets the batteries it uses for its R1T pickups and R1S SUVs from South Korean company Samsung SDI, is making the move partly in response to a global chip shortage that has negatively impacted the auto industry.  
“We depend upon third parties to manufacture and to supply key semiconductor chip components necessary for our vehicles,” said Rivian. “If these manufacturers or suppliers become unwilling or unable to provide an adequate supply of semiconductor chips, with respect to which there is a global shortage, we may not be able to find alternative sources in a timely manner and our business would be adversely impacted.” 
The EV truck startup, which Reuters reports has powerful backers in Amazon and Ford, said manufacturing its own battery cells will “complement third-party cell procurement which will provide supply continuity and support our anticipated growth.”   
Rivian has disclosed losses of almost $1 billion during the first half of this year and says it expects capital expenditure to come out to around $8 billion by the end of 2023 for investments in battery cell production, manufacturing capacity, and charging networks, among other things.  
“Given the paramount importance and impact of the battery system on vehicle range, performance, and price, we have built in-house capabilities across the entire value chain,” Rivian said. “Over time, we intend to expand our capabilities related to proprietary cell development and in-house cell manufacturing and expect that these functions will grow substantially in the coming years.” 
The company also plans to invest $5 billion into building a second assembly plant in the U.S. that will also contribute to battery cell production.  
Electric vehicle giant Tesla also announced plans to manufacture its own battery cells last year, reports Reuters, however the company canceled a planned release of its Model S Plaid+ Sedan powered by the battery cells earlier this year. 
By: Abraham Jewett
Leave a Reply
Your email address will not be published. Required fields are marked *
Comment
Name *
Email *
Website
BECOME A BOSS
Receive award winning BOSS Magazine each month.
Name:
Email:*
Submit



Recommended for you
Kellogg employees go on strike over benefit policies
Would your company benefit from outsourcing electronic manufacturing services?
Russian Crew Filming Space Movie
EV truck startup Rivian to make own semiconductor chips
Yellen Says No To Trillion-Dollar Coin
McDonald’s aims to reach net zero emissions by 2050
Facebook outages shake up internet
When you own some of the most popular websites and social networks on the internet, if your service goes down you have big problems on your hands and a lot... Read More
Massive oil spill off California coast threatens wildlife
Around 126,000 gallons of crude oil spewed into the Pacific Ocean near Huntington Beach  An oil spill struck the Southern California coast over the weekend — spewing around 126,000 gallons... Read More
Slower delivery times set to begin for certain mail sent via USPS
Slowdown to affect about 40% of USPS first class mail  Americans sending and receiving certain mail through the US Postal Service can expect longer wait times going forward, as new... Read More
Johansson, Disney reach settlement
Dispute over ‘Black Widow’ earnings resolved The Black Widow won’t seek revenge on Disney after all. “Black Widow” star Scarlett Johansson has reached a settlement with the company over her... Read More
Commercial spacecraft and satellite plant set for construction on Florida’s Space Coast
Facility will be capable of producing 1,000 complete satellites each year  Florida’s Space Coast is about to get more crowded. Satellite manufacturing company Terran Orbital has announced plans to build... Read More
Another COVID Corner Turned, Perhaps
With death projections down and vaccine mandates working, new reason for hope As millions of Americans became eligible and got vaccinated against COVID-19, there was much hope for a return... Read More
BACK TO TOP
BOARDROOM
Leadership
Finance
Lifestyle
Best-in-Class
Collaboration
Success
Trending
Innovation
INDUSTRY
Technology
Construction
Energy
Food & Drink
Healthcare
Manufacturing
Supply Chain
CORPORATE HEADQUARTERS
Digital Ink
5050 Avenida Encinas
Carlsbad
California
92008
: 1 (760) 655-3230
SUBSCRIBE
Copyright 2020 © BOSS Magazine ( a Digital Ink brand ) All rights reserved. Privacy Policy
Connect: