Deep Dive
Opinion
Data
Library
Events
SIGN UP
SEARCH
Search
x
Coronavirus Regulation Freight Logistics Operations Procurement Technology Risk
BRIEF
Semiconductor shortage, lean inventories stifle memory chip demand
Published Oct. 5, 2021
Max Garland
Reporter
Justin Sullivan via Getty Images
Dive Brief:
Micron's inventory is at its "leanest level in many years" as it encounters shortages of integrated circuit components, limiting its ability to meet full demand, CEO Sanjay Mehrotra said on the company's Q4 earnings call.
The computer memory chipmaker's days of inventory was 94 for the quarter — "definitely below the optimal level" of 100 to 105 days, CFO Dave Zinsner said. Micron is especially lean in finished goods inventory, with that category's value at its lowest level since 2013.
Micron's PC customers are encountering their own inventory challenges as they face shortages of other components, slowing near-term demand the COVID-19 pandemic had accelerated. PC-makers have cut back on memory and storage purchases to wait on semiconductors to complete their computer builds, Mehrotra said.
Micron's inventory levels fall below optimal range
Days of inventory and optimal range (100 to 105 days) since fiscal year 2019
Dive Insight:
The challenges Micron's customers are having in obtaining other components are slowing the near-term need for memory chips.
In September, manufacturers of computer and electronic products saw inventory gains as part shortage issues continued, according to the Institute for Supply Management. Manufacturers have held onto work-in-progress products, waiting for components in short supply like semiconductors to come in as order backlogs increased. Automakers, home appliance manufacturers, consumer electronics companies and other industries producing goods with chips inside have eased output due to the shortage.
"While I expect the shortages to bottom out in the second half, it will take another 1 to 2 years before the industry is able to completely catch up with demand," said Intel CEO Pat Gelsinger on the chipmaker's Q2 earnings call.
But with unmet end-consumer demand persisting for PCs, Mehrotra said current supply chain constraints are merely "pushing out" purchases of its products and that demand will return to normal in a few months.
"It really is all driven by work from home, learn from home," Mehrotra said. "That demand acceleration that has taken place through the pandemic will continue to support a healthy environment for PC in calendar year '22 as well."
Fellow memory chipmaker SK Hynix has also encountered inventory challenges amid the COVID-19 pandemic. It realized that utilizing its production capacity wouldn't be enough, so it tapped deeper into its inventory to keep up, Park Myoung-Soo, SK Hynix's head of DRAM marketing, said on the company's Q2 earnings call. Declining inventory trends in the industry "are likely to continue into the end of this year and also all the way into next year," Park added.
Micron's chip supply will have to grow enough to both meet near-term order requirements and replenish its inventory deficit ahead of a rebound in PC-maker demand anticipated by company executives.
Micron doesn't ever want inventory below 95 days, according to Zinsner, and inventory levels "will probably be up a few days" the next quarter but still below the ideal 100-day figure. Micron's days of inventory was well above 100 prior to fiscal year 2021.
Mehrotra said the memory chip industry as a whole has pared back its inventory in recent years, but now Micron's supply is too lean. This is in part due to issues with procuring enough controllers and analog integrated circuits, which will limit the company's large shipments to customers in Q1, Mehrotra said.
"As we already talked about, finished goods inventory is really where we're particularly lean," Zinsner said. "And we do have to make some progress in that space to get ourselves into a better position. But overall, I would say the back half of the year we'll probably be in the optimal range."
This story was first published in our weekly newsletter, Supply Chain Dive: Operations. Sign up here.
Recommended Reading:
SUPPLY CHAIN DIVE
TSMC says semiconductor capacity will remain tight into 2022
SUPPLY CHAIN DIVE
Automakers work to increase transparency into semiconductor supply
Follow Max Garland on Twitter
POST
SHARE
TWEET
PRINT
EMAIL
Filed Under: Stat of the Week, Operations, Procurement, Risk/Resilience
GET THE NEWSLETTER
Subscribe to Supply Chain Dive to get the must-read news & insights in your inbox.
Email:
Sign up
MOST POPULAR
Delayed exports clog the wood pulp, toilet paper supply chain
USPS moves forward with extended delivery times despite concerns
Retailers market supply chain training amid hiring push
Climate change poses high risk to Nestlé, Campbell Soup supply chains
Nike warns of shortages as ocean congestion, Vietnam shutdowns hurt inventory
LIBRARY
WEBINAR - ON DEMAND
How Procurement Leaders are Actioning Operational Priorities
TRENDLINE
Everything you need to know about peak season management
TRENDLINE
The latest trends and developments in warehouse automation
View all
PRESS RELEASES
CMX and Mojix Partner to Launch First Open Access Food Traceability Platform
Press release from CMX
Denim brand G-Star RAW chooses Nedap iD Cloud to create seamless shopping experiences
Press release from Nedap
Nedap launches iD Cloud Platform, enabling inventory visibility across supply chains
Press release from Nedap
Rapidly Growing Kansas City 3PL Provider Partners with USPS
Press release from WarehouseQuote
View all | Post a press release
WHAT WE'RE READING
TRANSPORT DIVE
Inside the financial health of trucking's largest players
Oct. 06
CNBC
Oil analysts predict a prolonged rally as OPEC resists calls to ramp up supply
Oct. 06
REUTERS
IKEA to shift more production to Turkey to shorten supply chain
Oct. 06
View all
EVENTS
What Will the Supply Chain Look Like in 2022 and Beyond?
Webinar 2 pm ET • Oct 6, 2021
Solving 5 Common Visibility Problems with Telematics
Webinar 2 pm ET • Oct 14, 2021
Overcoming Supply Chain Volatility To Build Resiliency
Webinar 2 pm ET • Oct 20, 2021
View all events
INDUSTRY INTEL
EBOOK
A Practical Guide to Autonomous Procurement
Jaggaer
WHITEPAPER
How to Keep Your Liquidation Programs from Competing with Your Primary Sales Channel
Inmar Intelligence
DOWNLOAD
The Guide to Fixed and Flexible Logistics
Flexe
PRESS RELEASES
Discover announcements from companies in your industry.
CMX and Mojix Partner to Launch First Open Access Food Traceability Platform
Press Release from CMX
Denim brand G-Star RAW chooses Nedap iD Cloud to create seamless shopping experiences
Press Release from Nedap
Nedap launches iD Cloud Platform, enabling inventory visibility across supply chains
Press Release from Nedap
Rapidly Growing Kansas City 3PL Provider Partners with USPS
Press Release from
WarehouseQuote
View all | Post a press release
Editors' picks
COLUMN
Inflation: Negotiate with suppliers and don't panic
Tried-and-true methods can help procurement managers combat across-the-board price increases in an inflationary environment.
By Rich Weissman • Aug. 26, 2021
Retail's new fad? Charter ships to ensure sales, even if it's costly.
Companies are willing to spend money on chartering ships because the alternative of not having inventory in for peak season is worse, said Sea-Intelligence CEO and Founder Alan Murphy.
By Max Garland • Sept. 22, 2021
Latest in Stat of the Week
Semiconductor shortage, lean inventories stifle memory chip demand
By Max Garland • Oct. 05, 2021
DHL invests $300M to expand, automate US e-commerce network
By Max Garland • Sept. 28, 2021
Manufacturers plan to boost wages at a record 3.5% rate
By Jim Tyson • Sept. 21, 2021
Inventory levels jump as manufacturers hold onto work-in-progress products
By Max Garland • Sept. 14, 2021
Get Supply Chain Dive in your inbox
The free newsletter covering the top industry headlines
Email:
Sign up
EXPLORE
Submit A Tip
Editorial Team
About
Newsletter
Article Reprints
Press Releases
What We're Reading
Advertising
Contact
RELATED PUBLICATIONS
Retail Dive
Transport Dive
FOLLOW
FEEDBACK
Work email: *
Message: *
Submit
© 2021 Industry Dive. All rights reserved. | View our other publications | Privacy policy | Terms of use | Take down policy.
We use cookies to optimize your experience on our website and for analytics and advertising purposes. By continuing to use our site, you agree to our cookie policy. Learn more
Accept