THE GAMES, MOVIES AND TV YOU LOVE
Search
Subscribe
US Edition
News
Deals
Guides
Features
Magazines
.st0{fill:#000}
TRENDING
PS5 Restock Updates
Deathloop review
Golden Joystick Awards
Xbox Series X stock
Stories
GamesRadar+ is supported by its audience. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Learn more
Home News
The chip shortage stifling PS5 and Xbox Series X supply could be drawing to an end
By Ali Jones 8 days ago
Things "will get better in 2022" according to AMD CEO
COMMENTS
(Image credit: Sony / Microsoft)
The global chip shortage making it difficult to acquire new consoles and graphics cards could be coming to an end, but supplies will remain "tight" for now according to AMD's CEO.
Speaking at the Code Conference 2021 (via The Verge), Lisa Su, CEO and president of hardware provider AMD said that the situation "will get better in 2022," although supplies will remain "tight" through the end of this year and "likely tight" in the first half of next year.
Unfortunately, it'll likely be a gradual shift "as more [production] plants come up" rather than a quick fix, but that's certainly better than nothing. It's been difficult to get hold of graphics cards created by both AMD and its biggest competitor in the gaming space, Nvidia, due to both a shortage of parts and a recent cryptocurrency boom. As more chips start to be manufactured and with factors like China's recent crackdown on crypto mining - in which the country's government declared the practice an "illegal financial activity" - in play, it should get significantly easier to find the parts you need for your next gaming PC.
Finding a PS5 or an Xbox Series X might also get easier, as the chips involved in graphics card manufacture are also used to make consoles. That said, Toshiba, which makes the power-regulating chips these electronics require, says that supplies might be slim until next September, and that some customers might be waiting until 2023 for their new tech.
RELATED VIDEOS

video playing
Why cross-play and cross-progression are...
14/06/20
27/01/21
Already planning your next rig? Here's our list of the best PC graphics cards.
Ali Jones
I'm GamesRadar's deputy news editor, working with Ben T across our gaming news articles. I started my journalistic career while getting my degree in English Literature at the University of Warwick, where I also worked as Games Editor on the student newspaper, The Boar. Since then, I've run the news sections at PCGamesN and Kotaku UK, and also regularly contributed to PC Gamer. As you might be able to tell, PC is my platform of choice, so you can regularly find me playing League of Legends or Steam's latest indie hit.
TOPICS
NEWS GAMES
PS5
XBOX SERIES X
SHOW MORE
Advertisement
RECOMMENDED
The best TV for PS5 and Xbox Series X: get the top visual experience for the new consoles
GAME REVIEWS
MOVIE REVIEWS
TV REVIEWS
1
Nintendo Switch OLED review: "Clearly the best version, but complicated to recommend"
2
Metroid Dread review: "Samus Aran is a little off her game"
3
Far Cry 6 review: "The series' delight in total chaos is still front and center"
4
Scuf Instinct Pro review: "Putting a price on how much you want to win"
5
Pandemic World of Warcraft board game review: "A detour worth taking"
Advertisement
GAMING DEALS, PRIZES AND LATEST NEWS
Get the best gaming deals, reviews, product advice, competitions, unmissable gaming news and more!
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
Advertisement
GamesRadar+ is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
About Us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Advertise with us
Accessibility Statement
© Future US, Inc. 11 West 42nd Street, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10036.