THE GLOBAL AUTHORITY ON PC GAMES
SUBSCRIBE
US Edition
News
Reviews
Hardware
Indie
Best Of
Magazine
Forum
More
POPULAR
Windows 11
New World
Halo Infinite
Diablo 2 Resurrected
Top 100
Squid Game
Deathloop
PC Gamer is supported by its audience. When you buy through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Learn more
Home News
The chip shortage could turn into a chip oversupply by 2023 states analyst firm
By Jacob Ridley 16 days ago
Well that would be quite the change of pace.
COMMENTS
(Image credit: Intel)
The chip shortage could turn into a chip oversupply by 2023, according to analyst firm IDC. That's perhaps not a fix-all solution for those desperate for new graphics silicon today, but, hey, at least it offers some hope that this isn't going to last forever, right?
The IDC report (via The Register) notes that it expects the semiconductor industry to see "normalisation and balance by the middle of 2022, with a potential for overcapacity in 2023 as larger scale capacity expansions begin to come online towards the end of 2022."
Manufacturing capacity is also said to be already maxed out for 2021, meaning every fab is booked up for the remainder of the year. Though it's reportedly looking a little better for fabless companies (i.e. AMD, Nvidia) to get hold of the chips they need.
Although with that comes warning of material shortages and slowdowns to back-end manufacturing (all the processes needing to be done to the wafer after it's been produced).
RECOMMENDED VIDEOS FOR YOU...

With the added pressure of the holiday shopping bonanza towards the end of the year, and low supply leading up to the busy period, I'd take a guess that we, as customers, are unlikely to feel the benefits of the somewhat improved supply—I'm happy to be proven wrong, however.
But that's still good news regarding next year and into 2023, although largely in line with what we've heard from Intel and TSMC over the past year in regards to supply issues.
As for what large-scale capacity expansions are on the way, there are a multitude of fabrication plant projects in the works. Intel, Samsung, and TSMC (to name only the largest) are all planning entirely new advanced chipmaking facilities, including heaps in the US. 
However, the majority of these fabs won't be powered on and pumping out chips until much later than 2022.
Intel's Ocotillo Fab in Arizona. (Image credit: Intel)
TIPS AND ADVICE
(Image credit: Future)
How to buy a graphics card: tips on buying a graphics card in the barren silicon landscape that is 2021
So an improvement like the one the IDC report must also depend on investment going into maintaining, improving, and expanding existing foundry capacity. As new process nodes begin to reach volume production that too will also help ease current congestion.
Manufacturers will be cautious to going overboard in increasing supply, though. They're selling absolutely everything they can build right now and overdelivering on the supply front could leave them swimming in leftover chips or having to drop prices. That actually happened to Nvidia once, and it did not end well. 
It's a bit of a tightrope: on the one hand, the massive potential in serving more products to more customers; on the other, the potential to be left with expensive fabs not making as much profit as they could be.
As all this correlates to gamers, it's graphics cards that appear the most affected by silicon shortages and massive demand more than any other component. GPU prices have appeared to drop substantially since early year highs, although the latest reports suggest we're not out of the woods yet.
So I wouldn't expect major shifts in graphics card supply in 2021, even if the IDC report rings true. I will say, though, that since both analyst and CEO seem to agree that 2023 will be back to normal, I'm quietly hopeful for that outcome.
At least that way we might stand a chance of picking up at least an Nvidia RTX 4000-series or AMD RX 7000-series graphics card at MSRP—even if that means leaving this potentially awesome generation as a bit of a damp squib.
Jacob Ridley
Jacob earned his first byline writing for his own tech blog from his hometown in Wales in 2017. From there, he graduated to professionally breaking things at PCGamesN, where he would later win command of the kit cupboard as hardware editor. Nowadays, as senior hardware editor at PC Gamer, he spends his days reporting on the latest developments in the technology and gaming industry. When he's not writing about GPUs and CPUs, you'll find him trying to get as far away from the modern world as possible by wild camping.
MORE ABOUT...
After 8 years, Rust is getting a mission system
Valve shows how to take apart the Steam Deck, but it really doesn't want you to
LATEST
'Evolved Apes' NFT creator Evil Ape disappears with $2.7M
SEE MORE LATEST
See comments
Install Windows 11 without worrying about TPM 2.0 or blocked updates with this workaround
Microsoft is making every effort to dissuade you from running Windows 11 on unsupported hardware, but if you don't meet the requirements for any reason, you can get the OS up and running anyway and still receive updates, despite the company's roadblocks. Some of which feel rather arbitrary, like not
PC Gamer
Dhaka: The Cost of Solar Panels May Surprise You
Solar panels | Search ads
|
Sponsored
Are You From Bangladesh? Project Management Courses Might Suprise You
Online Project Management Courses | Search ads
|
Sponsored
Online Jobs in the USA May Pay Tejgaon Residents More Than You Think
Find Jobs Near Me
|
Sponsored
The Prices Of A Masters Degree in United Kingdom Might Actually Surprise You 
Search | Masters Degree UK
|
Sponsored
MOST POPULAR
Twitch streamers aren't particularly bothered about their pay leaking
By Mollie Taylorabout 3 hours ago
New World remains offline as 'technical difficulties' force extended downtime
By Andy Chalkabout 4 hours ago
Old School Runescape's first new mode in years is a hardcore co-op odyssey
By Natalie Claytonabout 4 hours ago
Twitch confirms massive data breach has happened, is still figuring out why
By Rich Stantonabout 4 hours ago
Teardown's free 'Part 2' update goes full Garry's Mod
By Natalie Claytonabout 5 hours ago
Twitch megaleak reveals secret Steam competitor codenamed Vapour
By Rich Stantonabout 6 hours ago
Amazon says 'New World is safe to play' despite anecdotal reports of bricked GPUs
By Dave Jamesabout 6 hours ago
TSMC claims some companies in the tech supply chain are stockpiling its chips
By Dave Jamesabout 6 hours ago
This Gigabyte gaming laptop packs a GeForce RTX 3050 Ti and PCIe 4.0 SSD for $899
By Paul Lillyabout 7 hours ago
Geekbench now blocks benchmark scores from unreleased hardware
By Paul Lillyabout 8 hours ago
TOPICS
HARDWARE
INTEL
GRAPHICS CARD
SAMSUNG
TSMC
SHORTAGES
GPU
AMD
GPU STOCK
NVIDIA
LOAD COMMENTS
Advertisement
RECOMMENDED
Windows 11 review: We like it but you shouldn't be upgrading today
Hackers drain cryptocurrency accounts of thousands of Coinbase users
PC GAMER NEWSLETTER
Sign up to get the best content of the week, and great gaming deals, as picked by the editors.
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
Advertisement
HARDWARE BUYING GUIDES
LATEST GAME REVIEWS
1
The best gaming laptops in Australia for 2021
2
The best RAM for gaming in 2021
3
The best mid-tower cases in 2021
4
Best antivirus for PC gaming 2021
5
The best graphics cards in 2021
Advertisement
PC Gamer is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
About Us
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Advertise with us
Accessibility Statement
© Future US, Inc. 11 West 42nd Street, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10036.