HOME
MAIL
NEWS
FINANCE
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFE
YAHOO PLUS
MORE...
Yahoo Finance
Sign in
Mail
Finance
Watchlists
My Portfolio
Screeners
Yahoo Finance Plus
Markets
News
…
U.S. markets closed
S&P 500
4,363.58
+17.86 (+0.41%)
 Dow 30
34,416.99
+102.32 (+0.30%)
 Nasdaq
14,501.91
+68.08 (+0.47%)
 Russell 2000
2,213.30
-15.05 (-0.68%)
 Crude Oil
77.06
-1.87 (-2.37%)
 Gold
1,765.20
+4.30 (+0.24%)
 Silver
22.69
+0.08 (+0.36%)
 EUR/USD
1.1562
-0.0039 (-0.34%)
 10-Yr Bond
1.5240
-0.0050 (-0.33%)
 GBP/USD
1.3588
-0.0038 (-0.28%)
 USD/JPY
111.4000
-0.0720 (-0.06%)
 BTC-USD
55,102.31
+3,881.17 (+7.58%)
 CMC Crypto 200
1,329.09
+65.99 (+5.22%)
 FTSE 100
6,995.87
-81.23 (-1.15%)
 Nikkei 225
27,528.87
-293.25 (-1.05%)
 Nissan plans Mexico work stoppages in October due to chip shortage
Wed, October 6, 2021, 11:36 PM·1 min read
A general view shows part of the Nissan manufacturing complex in Aguascalientes
In this article:
NSANY
-5.97%
MEXICO CITY (Reuters) - Japanese automaker Nissan will carry out temporary work stoppages at two Mexican plants for several days in October because of production adjustments needed to manage a shortage of semiconductor chips, its Mexico unit said on Wednesday.
Nissan will halt operations at its plant 2 in the central state of Aguascalientes for 11 days in October, and its CIVAC plant in Morelos state will be halted for 8 days, the carmaker said in emailed comments to Reuters.
The stoppages come as automotive production in Brazil and Mexico, Latin America's two largest economies, plunged in September, dragged down by an industry-wide semiconductor chip shortage and railroad blockades in Mexico.
"We continue to make adjustments to our production process to minimize the impact this has had on the automotive industry locally and globally," said Nissan, adding it was working to recover production and make good on delivery of vehicles to distributors and customers.
(Reporting by Sharay Angulo; Writing by Anthony Esposito)
Related Quotes
Symbol Last Price Change % Change
NSANY
Nissan Motor Co., Ltd.
9.45 -0.60 -5.97%
TRENDING
1.
TREASURIES-Short-end yields fall on possible U.S. debt limit extension
2.
FOREX-Dollar advances on inflation worries; payrolls data eyed
3.
GLOBAL MARKETS-Stocks rebound on progress toward U.S. debt ceiling resolution
4.
UPDATE 1-U.S. to invest another $1 bln in rapid COVID-19 tests
5.
Russia Offers to Ease Europe’s Gas Crisis, With Strings Attached
Recommended Stories
Bloomberg
Dimon Says JPMorgan to Review Contracts Amid Debt Limit Impasse
(Bloomberg) -- JPMorgan Chase & Co. will begin a review of all of its contracts on Monday, including those tied to repo markets, as part of preparations for a potential default by the United States government. Most Read from BloombergLeft-Wing Rage Threatens a Wall Street Haven in Latin AmericaChristmas at Risk as Supply Chain ‘Disaster’ Only Gets WorseReshaped by Crisis, an ‘Anti-Biennial’ Reimagines ChicagoBefore Interstates, America Got Around on InterurbansThis Is What Europe’s Green Future
2h ago
TipRanks
Oppenheimer: 3 Stocks to Buy Despite Growing Supply-Chain Issues (And 1 to Avoid)
As Christmas 2021 begins to loom, Americans may find themselves more dependent upon gift delivery-via-Santa than ever before -- because America's supply chain is in a terrible snarl. Supply chain snafus that began on the West Coast with logjams of container ships struggling to reach port in Los Angeles and Long Beach, now span the continent. On Wednesday last week, The Wall Street Journal reported that the fourth-largest U.S. gateway for seaborne imports, the Port of Savannah in Georgia, now has
1d ago
Ad
•
Novelodge
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Brilliant Car Cleaning Hacks Local Dealers Wish You Didn’t Know
Reuters
U.S. employers look to prioritize well-being of remote workers- survey
Several U.S. companies are looking to prioritize employee well-being by offering perks such as home delivery of meals and subsidized furniture to meet the rigors of working from home, a survey showed on Wednesday. One of five employers have such plans for next year, according to early results from a national survey of 1,502 respondents that was conducted by employee benefits consultant Mercer between June and September. With a majority of people working remotely due to the COVID-19 pandemic, employers are looking for at-home alternatives for offerings such as subsidized healthy food choices in cafeterias or onsite gyms, the survey of employer-sponsored health plans found.
2h ago
TheStreet.com
Take a Pass on Lexicon Pharmaceuticals for Now
During Tuesday's Mad Money "Lightning Round", one caller asked Jim Cramer about a company by the name of Lexicon Pharmaceuticals : "I like companies like this," he responded. Let's check out the chart of this biopharmaceutical company that is using gene science. In this daily bar chart of LXRX, below, we can see that prices made a rapid run-up in late 2020 and then declined from February to July/August.
12h ago
Motley Fool
Why Energy Fuels Stock Plunged 12%
Shares of uranium mining specialist Energy Fuels (NYSEMKT: UUUU) are down 12% as of 2:15 p.m. EDT Wednesday, and it's not hard to figure out why the stock is struggling. According to the experts at MiningReview.com, uranium prices need to rise to about $60 a pound in order to become profitable enough to "incentivize" uranium miners to increase production. Now, thanks to significant buying by the Sprott Physical Uranium Trust (OTC: SRUU.F), uranium prices nearly doubled between mid-August and mid-September, and seemed to be heading in the general direction of $60.
47m ago
Yahoo Finance Video
Biden meets with bank CEOs, Google’s new eco-friendly feature, Walmart teams up with Home Depot for delivery
Yahoo Finance's Julie Hyman breaks down Wednesday’s business headlines.
5h ago
Yahoo Finance
Don't rule out an energy crisis: Goldman Sachs
Goldman is out with a warning that it could get worse before it gets better in the energy sector.
4h ago
Yahoo Finance Video
Mixing & matching covid boosters ‘might be a great opportunity’: Doctor
Dr. Jeremy Faust, Emergency Medicine Physician, Brigham and Women’s Hospital, joins Yahoo Finance to discuss the latest on the coronavirus pandemic.
2h ago
Bloomberg
Oil Sinks by Most in Two Weeks With Supply Concerns Easing
(Bloomberg) -- Oil declined by the most in two weeks in the wake of growing U.S. inventories and after Russia signaled it is ready to help ease a global energy crisis. Most Read from BloombergLeft-Wing Rage Threatens a Wall Street Haven in Latin AmericaChristmas at Risk as Supply Chain ‘Disaster’ Only Gets WorseReshaped by Crisis, an ‘Anti-Biennial’ Reimagines ChicagoBefore Interstates, America Got Around on InterurbansThis Is What Europe’s Green Future Looks LikeFutures in New York slid 1.9% on
55m ago
American City Business Journals
Companies strike $1.9B Colorado natural gas pipeline deal but investor Icahn says they're overpaying
The 2,160-mile pipeline network and natural gas hub near Meeker found a new buyer after Berkshire Hathaway walked away.
5h ago
FX Empire
Silver Price Prediction – Prices Consolidate as Dollar Gains Toe Hold
U.S. Yields move higher
23h ago
Quartz
India is also staring at an energy crisis
After China resorted to power rationing last month, Indian authorities may have to adopt similar limits if dwindling coal stores at power plants trigger a power crisis here in the coming months. Coal-fired power plants had stockpiles of coal for an average of four days as on Oct. 4, far short of federal guidelines recommending supplies of at least two weeks, according to the latest data by the Central Electricity Authority. Out of 108 plants, 16 power stations have reported fuel outages and 45 have stock for just a couple of days.
12h ago
Motley Fool
4 Supercharged Growth Stocks With 105% to 192% Upside, According to Wall Street
Select analysts and investment firms expect these fast-paced stocks to double or nearly triple over the next 12 months.
10h ago
Reuters
OPEC+ caution and money behind reluctance to pump more oil-sources
OPEC+'s decision on Monday to stick with a plan to raise oil output modestly and gradually, despite prices surging to multi-year highs, was partly driven by concern that demand and prices could weaken, sources close to the group told Reuters. After seeing their income slide during the pandemic-induced demand and price collapse in 2020, the OPEC+ oil producers' alliance led by Russia and top exporter Saudi Arabia are enjoying the boost in revenues, three OPEC+ sources said. OPEC+ brought in record production cuts of about 10 million barrels per day (bpd) in April 2020, or about 10% of global output, after restrictions around the world to curb the spread of the coronavirus paralysed oil demand and hit prices hard.
4h ago
Reuters
Energy price surge sends shivers through markets as Europe looks to Russia
U.S. oil prices briefly touched their highest in almost seven years and natural gas prices were at record levels as China and other big consumers struggle to cope with demand that has bounced back more quickly than expected from the COVID-19 downturn. In Europe, natural gas prices have rocketed almost 600% this year on worries that current low storage levels will be insufficient for the winter. While in the United States, natural gas futures recently hit 12-year-highs.
3h ago
MarketWatch
Goldman Sachs cuts ratings on American and JetBlue, but says it’s still ‘positive’ on airlines
Goldman Sachs analysts say they are still "positive on the path to profitability" for U.S. airlines, but profits are likely to be slower to return amid rising fuel prices and worse sales.
4h ago
Barrons.com
Oil and Natural Gas Prices Ease On Signs of Increased Supplies
Oil and natural gas prices declined Wednesday after data showing increases in U.S. domestic production and inventories of oil and gasoline, and Russian President Vladimir Putin hinted he might help stabilize European gas prices by increasing production. The decline came after European natural-gas prices had skyrocketed by 40% over two days on fears of supply crunches and low inventories ahead of the winter season, which threatens to be colder than usual. Prices of Brent crude oil, the international benchmark, eased 1.6% to $81.2 a barrel after shooting past the $80-a-barrel mark Tuesday.
7h ago
Bloomberg
Merkel Dismisses Russian Role in Europe’s Energy Price Crisis
(Bloomberg) -- Outgoing German Chancellor Angela Merkel dismissed charges that Russian leader Vladimir Putin is partly to blame for the record spikes in European gas prices. Most Read from BloombergLeft-Wing Rage Threatens a Wall Street Haven in Latin AmericaChristmas at Risk as Supply Chain ‘Disaster’ Only Gets WorseReshaped by Crisis, an ‘Anti-Biennial’ Reimagines ChicagoBefore Interstates, America Got Around on InterurbansThis Is What Europe’s Green Future Looks Like“To my knowledge, there ar
6h ago
Reuters
From bratwurst to jamon: EU pork sector crown shifts to Spain
When he was a child in Avila province, Albert Pascual's father bought 100 pigs, but the company he now leads has more than 9,000 - part of a major expansion that has put Spain on track to take over as the European Union's top pork producer this year. Germany has long topped the table of EU pork producers, but an outbreak of African Swine Fever (ASF) in September 2020 among wild boars meant it lost access to the lucrative Chinese market. That has accelerated a shift in EU production towards ASF-free Spain that was already underway, helped by its less onerous regulations in areas such as planning and use of manure.
13h ago
American City Business Journals
Spirit backs from early union talks after vaccine mandate
Spirit notified workers Wednesday that, because it is a federal contractor, it will require all U.S. employees to be vaccinated.
55m ago