Search
PRO
Events
More
Login
Register
Resources
Research
Learn
Experts
My newsfeed
Home
Save & file View original Forward Print
Share
Follow
Like Instruct
Register now for your free, tailored, daily legal newsfeed service.
Questions? Please contact customerservices@lexology.com
Register
Milkshakes, chicken and chips: supply issues in the post-pandemic world
Stevens & Bolton LLP
European Union, United Kingdom October 5 2021
Supply chain problems have been hitting the headlines in recent weeks with food chain Nando’s running out of chicken and McDonalds running out of milkshakes. This is not a new phenomenon though as global automotive production has been suffering from a lack of semi-conductor chips for a considerable time.
Supply chain disruption is being attributed to a number of factors: shortage of delivery drivers due to fewer drivers entering the UK post-Brexit, increased border controls and customs regulations causing longer wait times, the rise of the Covid “pingdemic” requiring drivers and production line staff to isolate and (in the case of the automotive sector), demand for semi-conductors outstripping supply, coupled with an increase in raw material prices.
For a manufacturer facing these challenges, it is important to remember what it has agreed to supply, and by when, by reviewing its customer contract. However, in times of adversity, is there any “wriggle room” regarding this manufacturing commitment? Earlier this year, in the much-publicised supply dispute involving the European Commission and Astra Zeneca, the European Court addressed this issue in deciding what was meant by “best reasonable endeavours” to supply Covid vaccines to the EU; and ultimately accepting Astra Zeneca’s arguments that its delivery commitments were somewhat flexible.
A manufacturer may want to see if any “force majeure” clause in its agreement may be of assistance. Such clauses allow a party to suspend or extinguish their obligations due to events out of their control, perhaps due to fire, flood, a natural disaster, war, a strike or, if specifically drafted, epidemic or pandemic.
A commercial approach to dealing with supply chain issues is encouraged and a manufacturer is often better-off being upfront with its customer as to likely supply issues. This may be through a contract “re-set”, or if this is not an option and there remains a tension between the parties, through the engagement of a third party (such as a mediator) to explore potential for a commercial solution.
A formal dispute process should be a last resort as it can irreparably damage business relationships not to mention be a costly exercise – financially and reputationally – whatever the outcome. The European Commission/Astra Zeneca dispute is an example of how a supply dispute can quickly escalate. Yet the decision of the European Court to order a staged vaccine delivery programme, with the “sting” of penalties if deadlines were missed, is helpful in showing how courts can adopt a commercial approach.
For suppliers able to meet their supply commitments but faced with customers who are experiencing cashflow problems, a supplier should be weary of favouring one customer over another. Whilst prioritising customers is ultimately a commercial decision, it will still be bound by manufacturing and delivery commitments in its other contracts.
From a customer’s perspective, business failure of a supplier can cause severe distress and risk them being left out of pocket for goods paid for upfront, or unable to meet orders for their own products.
Steps can be taken to try to avoid this scenario: customers should conduct due diligence on suppliers before exchanging contracts to determine their financial health; supply contracts can provide for ownership of goods to pass to customers upon manufacture rather than delivery, so that those goods can be ring-fenced if the supplier went into insolvency; or a customer may consider spreading risk across several suppliers, or take out insurance against supplier insolvency.
However, as the last year has illustrated, unforeseen events can turn any successful business into a struggling one without much warning.
If a supplier enters insolvency, some customers may want to cut ties and move on. Contracts typically entitle a customer to terminate upon the supplier’s insolvency. If a supplier enters administration, a statutory moratorium prevents customers from taking certain actions (including legal proceedings) against a distressed supplier without the administrator’s consent or court permission. A similar situation arises if a supplier seeks the benefit of a temporary moratorium as is now possible without entering administration. The moratorium should not prevent a customer from exercising its contractual rights, such as termination or retention of title rights (although it will fetter the customer’s ability physically to repossess the goods).
If the business continues trading whilst in administration, the buyer may want to fulfil any incomplete orders, and there may be scope for negotiation around future supplies. Where there are no other interested buyers or alternative suppliers, a customer may consider purchasing part of the supplier’s business itself to ensure continued supply.
If customers pay for goods in advance and the supplier enters insolvency, the goods are unlikely to be handed over unless title has already passed. The liquidator or administrator will only reimburse deposits if sufficient funds are available but in practice this rarely happens, as customers usually rank as unsecured creditors.
Undoubtedly these are challenging times. The combination of two seismic events such as a global pandemic following a major political upheaval will continue to send shockwaves through the manufacturing sector as businesses have to re-adjust and diversify into new ways of working.
This article was first published in UK Manufacturing, see here.
Stevens & Bolton LLP - Tim Carter and Michael Stocks
Save & file View original Forward Print
Share
Follow
Like Instruct
Filed under
European Union United Kingdom Company & Commercial Public Stevens & Bolton LLP
Topics
Brexit Supply chain Due diligence Force majeure Coronavirus
Organisations
European Commission
Popular articles from this firm
UK SCC's - the future
*
The EU Digital Services Act and the Digital Markets Act - what do they mean for the UK post Brexit?
*
A carer had the right to bring indirect discrimination claims based on her association with a disabled person
*
UK SCCs - the future
*
Remote working from overseas: sounds idyllic but beware of the legal pitfalls
*
If you would like to learn how Lexology can drive your content marketing strategy forward, please email enquiries@lexology.com.
Featured video
PRO
Video
Competition law: How to handle investigations from authorities
4m 53s
By Gönenç Gürkaynak
Related practical resources
PRO
HOW-TO GUIDE
How-to guide: How to identify relevant sanctions regimes and deal with conflicting obligations
CHECKLIST
Checklist: Managing a dawn raid
CHECKLIST
Checklist: Competition audit information request (UK)
Related research hubs
Brexit
European Commission
European Union
United Kingdom
Company & Commercial
Public
Cynthia Scott
In-House Counsel
Wal-Mart Stores Inc
What our clients say
"Generally, this service is wonderful. I find that the employment law newsfeeds are extremely helpful and relevant. The quality of the articles is usually quite good. The website provides an avenue for quick research regarding various employment law issues."
Resources
Daily newsfeed
Commentary
Q&A
Research hubs
Learn
In-depth
Lexy: AI search
Experts
Find experts
Legal Influencers
Firms
About Instruct Counsel
More
About us
Blog
Events
Store
Popular
Legal
Terms of use
Cookies
Disclaimer
Privacy policy
GDPR compliance
Contact
Contact
RSS feeds
Submissions
  Login
Register
Search
Follow on Twitter
Follow on LinkedIn
© Copyright 2006 - 2021 Law Business Research

We use cookies to give you the best online experience. By clicking "Accept Cookies" or clicking into any content on this site, you agree to allow cookies to be placed. To find out more visit ourcookie policy
Cookies Settings Accept Cookies