World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
September 17, 2021
2:20 AM +06
Last Updated 20 days ago
Autos & Transportation
Chip supply, testing woes to further curb light vehicle production in 2021- IHS Markit
Reuters
2 minute read
Engine casting blocks, used in a variety of General Motors cars, trucks and crossovers, move down the assembly line at the GM Romulus Powertrain plant in Romulus, Michigan, U.S. August 21, 2019. Rebecca Cook
Sept 16 (Reuters) - Semiconductor shortages and the delayed packaging and testing of the chips will cause production of global light vehicles to drop by five million this year, data firm IHS Markit said on Thursday, marking the biggest cut to its outlook in nine months.
Citing supply chain challenges, IHS said it was cutting its light vehicle production forecast by 6.2% for 2021 and 9.3% for 2022, to stand at 75.8 million units and 82.6 million units, respectively.
Packaging and testing operations within the semiconductor sector in Malaysia were impacted due to the government's lockdown measures in early June, IHS said, compounding difficulties in an already constrained supply chain.
"Our interpretation of the situation in Malaysia, which is responsible for 13% of the global supply of semiconductors for the automotive industry, has become more pessimistic," IHS said.
"The two-and-a-half-month backlog that has built up since June will take time to clear and is anticipated to extend well into 2022."
Automakers from General Motors (GM.N) to Japan's Toyota (7203.T) have slashed output and sales forecasts due to scarce chip supplies, made worse by a COVID-19 resurgence in key Asian semiconductor production hubs.
IHS said the semiconductor snafus have resulted in lost production of 1.44 million units in the first quarter and a further 2.6 million units in the second quarter.
Currently, losses in the quarter are running at 3.1 million units and rising, nearly double its previous forecast.
"The outlook for Q4 now reflects heightened risk as challenges to the supply chain – primarily semiconductors – remain entrenched."
Reporting by Rithika Krishna and Sanjana Shivdas in Bengaluru; Editing by Krishna Chandra Eluri
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
EU leaders make plans to thrash out gas strategy
World's top miners pledge net-zero emissions
Tesco: shoppers won't pay to go green
PepsiCo hikes revenue forecast as soda demand jumps
GM's new research center to cut battery costs
Micro-shift app gets students super-short jobs
Facebook's AI catches little 'offending content'...
BVTV: Facebook under siege
Rent the Runway's IPO filing shows drop in revenue
EV batteries: major players and their expansion plans
Read Next
Change Suite
Analysis: Tesla would face tough road in any bid to slash $137 mln racial bias verdict in U.S.
Autos & Transportation
GM, General Electric to study rare earth supply projects for EVs
Americas
Auto output dives in Brazil, Mexico as chip shortages bite
Autos & Transportation
Stellantis' Alfa Romeo to launch new model every year to 2026
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Autos & Transportation
Autos & Transportation · October 6, 2021 · 10:07 PM +06
GM aims to double revenues by 2030 as it drives to pass Tesla
General Motors Co Chief Executive Mary Barra told investors Wednesday the automaker plans to double revenue by 2030, expanding profits from combustion vehicles as it rolls out new electric vehicles and new digitally-powered services in a bid to catch up with Tesla Inc .
Autos & Transportation
Sweden's AB Volvo wins its largest electric truck order so far
October 6, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Tesla faces investor test after big jury award over racism
October 6, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Battery giants face skills gap that could jam electric highway
October 5, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Stellantis' Alfa Romeo to launch new model every year to 2026
October 6, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved