Skip to content
Listen
Newsletters
Shows
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
DONATE
Search
Menu
How We Survive
I've Always Wondered ...
The Big Return
Econ Extra Credit with David Brancaccio
Make Me Smart Daily
What’s behind the chip shortage?
Marketplace
MORE FROM THIS SHOW
0% played
What’s behind the chip shortage?
Marielle Segarra
Sep 17, 2021
Heard on:
LISTEN NOW
The chip shortage has been made worse by shipping bottlenecks, worker shortages and supply chain issues. Jens Schlueter/AFP via Getty Images
Sign up for the daily Marketplace newsletter to make sense of the most important business and economic news.

SUBSCRIBE
General Motors announced this week that it’s shutting down production of its main electric vehicle, the Chevy Bolt, through mid-October because of a shortage of batteries driven by the global shortage of semiconductor chips.
Marketplace has covered the chip shortage again and again and again. But why exactly is there a chip shortage in the first place?
Shortages happen when the demand for something is higher than the supply. When it comes to computer chips, there are problems on both sides of that equation.
First, in the pandemic, demand for chips went up.
“The consumption of chips has skyrocketed because more and more people are buying computers and various electronic devices as they’re stuck at home,” said Morris Cohen, who teaches operations and information management at The Wharton School.
Marketplace
Hosted by Kai Ryssdal
LATEST EPISODES
When WhatsApp goes down, global communication stops
Oct 5, 2021
How the U.S. became a tax haven for the globe’s wealthy and elite
Oct 4, 2021
Could this be the start of a new labor movement?
Oct 1, 2021
Then, there’s a supply problem. That’s because of natural disasters in at least three countries, according to Art Wheaton at Cornell University’s ILR School.
“So, one of the major chip suppliers in Japan had a fire. Texas, for Intel, had a problem with the winter storms. And in Taiwan, which is one of the largest producers in the world of these chips, they’re having a drought — and making computer chips requires lots of water, so they have been impacted,” Wheaton said.
Also, the companies that make chips haven’t been able to find enough workers. Not to mention the shipping bottlenecks.
“A lot of them go through China as one of the major ports. And they had a COVID outbreak, which stopped people from unloading and loading these container ships,” Wheaton said. “And then when you get a backlog of those, it’s hard to unload them and get caught up, especially if you’re having a labor shortage.”
Latest Stories on Marketplace
An argument for bringing back a contractual “lottery” for retirement savings
Pressure mounts to require parents to work to get the child tax credit
Can the shipping industry meet its climate goal for 2050?
Though these issues have beleaguered the chip industry broadly, for the car industry, there’s another problem: Carmakers were expecting demand to slow down during the pandemic, so they canceled a lot of their orders for chips. That means that now they’re at the back of the line.
STORIES YOU MIGHT LIKE
The chip shortage is hitting just about anything with a plug or battery
What this Dutch semiconductor company could tell you about the car market
Ford is latest automaker to cut production due to microchip shortage
What the “beer game” can teach about supply chain challenges
Planning to rent a car? It’s going to cost you.
From semiconductors to containers, “every day, it’s a different problem” on the supply chain
We’re here to help you navigate this changed world and economy.
Our mission at Marketplace is to raise the economic intelligence of the country. It’s a tough task, but it’s never been more important.
In the past year, we’ve seen record unemployment, stimulus bills, and reddit users influencing the stock market. Marketplace helps you understand it all, will fact-based, approachable, and unbiased reporting.
Generous support from listeners and readers is what powers our nonprofit news—and your donation today will help provide this essential service. For just $5/month, you can sustain independent journalism that keeps you and thousands of others informed.
ALSO INCLUDED IN
Tags in this Story
Computer chip shortage
Semiconductor chips
Shipping industry
Supply chain
SHARE THIS STORY
LATEST EPISODES FROM OUR SHOWS
7:31 AM PDT
9:10
3:00 AM PDT
7:28
7:31 AM PDT
1:50
3:00 AM PDT
35:55
Oct 5, 2021
26:53
Oct 5, 2021
38:59
Aug 26, 2021
34:03
An argument for bringing back a contractual "lottery" for retirement savings
Facebook whistleblower Haugen stresses need for regulation to Senators
A Warmer World
Can the shipping industry meet its climate goal for 2050?
WhatsApp outage highlights the scale of its worldwide use
About
Contact Us
FAQs
Staff
Careers
Support Marketplace
For Individuals
For Foundations
For Corporate Sponsors
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Youtube
Subscribe to Marketplace Newsletters:
NEWSLETTERS
TALK TO US
INVEST IN MARKETPLACE
FIND YOUR LOCAL STATION
© 2021 Minnesota Public Radio. All Rights Reserved. Marketplace is a division of MPR's 501 (c)(3). EIN: 41-0953924
Privacy Policy
Terms of Use