World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
September 6, 2021
3:54 PM +06
Last Updated a month ago
Autos & Transportation
BMW CEO expects chip supply to remain tight for another 6-12 months
Reuters
1 minute read
BMW CEO Oliver Zipse visits the BMW vaccination centre as the German car manufacturer starts to provide coronavirus disease (COVID-19) vaccinations for staff, in Munich, Germany, June 7, 2021. REUTERS/Andreas Gebert
MUNICH, Sept 6 (Reuters) - BMW (BMWG.DE) expects supply chains to remain tight well into 2022, Chief Executive Oliver Zipse said on Monday, squashing hopes that a painful shortage of crucial semiconductors will end soon.
"I expect that the general tightness of the supply chains will continue in the next 6 to 12 months," he said at the IAA Munich car show.
Zipse, who like other car executives is battling lower production due to a lack of semiconductors, said he saw no issues in the long-term, adding that the automotive industry was an attractive client for chipmakers.
Reporting by Christina Amann; Writing by Christoph Steitz
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
EU leaders make plans to thrash out gas strategy
World's top miners pledge net-zero emissions
Tesco: shoppers won't pay to go green
PepsiCo hikes revenue forecast as soda demand jumps
GM's new research center to cut battery costs
Micro-shift app gets students super-short jobs
Facebook's AI catches little 'offending content'...
BVTV: Facebook under siege
Rent the Runway's IPO filing shows drop in revenue
EV batteries: major players and their expansion plans
Read Next
Change Suite
Analysis: Tesla would face tough road in any bid to slash $137 mln racial bias verdict in U.S.
Autos & Transportation
GM, General Electric to study rare earth supply projects for EVs
Americas
Auto output dives in Brazil, Mexico as chip shortages bite
Autos & Transportation
Stellantis' Alfa Romeo to launch new model every year to 2026
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Autos & Transportation
Autos & Transportation · October 6, 2021 · 10:07 PM +06
GM aims to double revenues by 2030 as it drives to pass Tesla
General Motors Co Chief Executive Mary Barra told investors Wednesday the automaker plans to double revenue by 2030, expanding profits from combustion vehicles as it rolls out new electric vehicles and new digitally-powered services in a bid to catch up with Tesla Inc .
Autos & Transportation
Sweden's AB Volvo wins its largest electric truck order so far
October 6, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Tesla faces investor test after big jury award over racism
October 6, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Battery giants face skills gap that could jam electric highway
October 5, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Stellantis' Alfa Romeo to launch new model every year to 2026
October 6, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved