Markets
Tech
Media
Success
Perspectives
Videos
Edition
Search CNN
User Account
Open Menu
MARKETS
see all
DOW
34,416.99
102.32
0.30%
S&P 500
4,363.56
17.82
0.41%
NASDAQ
14,501.91
68.08
0.47%
FEATURED
Cryptocurrency, explained
If you're a crypto novice, you might be wondering what all the fuss is about
LATEST
Former Theranos lab director 'grilled' over course of six days in trial of Elizabeth Holmes
Twitch confirms major data breach
Goldman Sachs warns of a 'real risk' that America could default on its debt
Car sales plunge as chip shortages choke off supply
By Chris Isidore, CNN Business
Updated 1902 GMT (0302 HKT) October 1, 2021
Lack of new cars is lifting used car prices
'More ships than parking spots': What a stuck supply chain looks like
North America's busiest cargo port is facing record backlog
'Treating this like a game': Psaki blasts GOP as debt ceiling deadline nears
New York (CNN Business)New car sales plunged over the last three months in the United States despite strong demand, as the shortage of computer chips and other supply chain issues caused shutdowns at auto factories and choked off the supply of vehicles.
General Motors reported sales fell a third from a year-ago last quarter, and they were off 40% from the same quarter of 2019 before the pandemic roiled the car market. Sales at Stellantis, the company formed by the merger of Fiat Chrysler and France's PSA Group, fell 19% from a year ago, and 27% from the pre-pandemic period.
At Toyota Motor, which includes Toyota and Lexus, third quarter sales edged up 1.4% compared to a year ago. But that three-month total includes a 22% plunge in September sales. (The company breaks out monthly sales numbers, unlike GM and Stellantis.) While Toyota has reported fewer supply chain disruptions than other major automakers it, too, has had to cut back production at some factories more recently.
So all the automakers pointed to semiconductor supply chain disruptions and historically low inventories as a problem for sales.
"While the various supply chain issues facing our industry continue to impact available inventory, we know the demand for our vehicles is still there," said Jeff Kommor, US head of sales for Stellantis.
The shortage of vehicles has also led to record-high prices for both new and used cars for much of this year, which has also been a drag on sales, as some buyers have been priced out of the new car market.
The auto industry has been dealing with a shortage of computer chips needed to build cars for more than a year. GM (GM) said it expects the situation will improve in the final three months of 2021, but earlier this year automakers had hoped things would have improved by this point. Instead, GM has been forced to temporarily shut production of most of its North American plants.
"The semiconductor supply disruptions that impacted our third-quarter wholesale and customer deliveries are improving," said the nation's largest automaker in a statement. "As we look to the fourth quarter, a steady flow of vehicles held at plants will continue to be released to dealers, we are restarting production at key crossover and car plants, and we look forward to a more stable operating environment through the fall."
Biden official reveals the failure behind America's epic chip shortage
The computer chip shortage started when auto sales plunged in the early weeks of the pandemic, due to record job losses and the temporary closure of many factories and dealerships. Most automakers, expecting a prolonged downturn in sales, trimmed orders for computer chips and other parts. When sales rebounded much faster than anyone expected, the supply of chips had already gone to other customers.
While the automakers expected to be able to increase their supply of chips by the middle of this year, they were hit by outbreaks of Covid cases in other regions, such as Southeast Asia, where many of the chip plants were shut. And other supply chain issues, including an imbalance of shipping containers and congestion at the nation's ports, a shortage of truck drivers and general labor shortages, started limiting supplies of other needed parts and raw materials.
Other automakers are due to report results later Friday or on Monday.
PAID CONTENT
Where Do The Richest Americans Live?
Mansion Global
Dhaka : Online Jobs in the USA May Pay More Than You…
Sponsored Listings
RECOMMENDED
1/5
It's official. China's manufacturing industry is in trouble
Read More
[Photos] Victoria Principal Is Now 71 Years Old, This Is Her Now
LifeExact
Dhaka: Online Jobs in the USA May Pay More Than You Think
Online Jobs | Ads
Use data masking to ensure secure—and compliant—software delivery
TechBeacon
Real Estate NYC | Sponsored Listing
The cost of real estate in New York might surprise you
Mansion Global
Dubai’s Palm Jumeirah Ready for Showtime
Mansion Global
The banana island is a billionaire’s paradise.
TechBeacon
Why enterprises are adapting their COBOL apps vs…
Jobs in UK | Sponsored Listing
Getting a Job in UK may be easier than you think
Full-Floor Penthouse at the Ritz-Carlton Residences in…
Mansion Global
Next generation ESM: An essential guide—5 key…
TechBeacon
PAID CONTENT
Here's How These Viral Shorts Look (and Feel) on 11 Different… Outdoor Voices
The Cost of Real Estate in Miami Might Surprise You Real Estate Miami | Sponsored Listing
Dental implant surgery options. Dental Implants | Search Ads
Boost employee satisfaction with meal programs from GrabFood for… Grab
MORE FROM CNN
Scarlett Johansson and Disney agree to end lawsuit
It's official. China's manufacturing industry is in trouble
What we learned this week in the trial of Elizabeth Holmes
This electric car can go 520 miles on a charge but the CEO says…
RECOMMENDED BY
TOP STORIES
Tech billionaire: Facebook is what's wrong with America
Jamie Dimon says JPMorgan has begun to prepare for potential US…
Recommended by
MORE FROM CNN BUSINESS
Boeing to build its first foreign assembly plant
China jails former chairman of liquor giant Moutai for life…
British Airways blames pilots as it ditches plans for new…
Ryanair and Boeing have fallen out in public. Here's why…
PAID CONTENT
World-Famous Actor Secretly Purchases Massive Georgia Farm - Mansion Global
Mansion Global
[Photos] A lost boat reappears after 8 years
paperela
Why data privacy demands a legit data protection strategy
TechBeacon
BY
MORE FROM CNN BUSINESS
Tina Turner sells entire music catalog to BMG
Four takeaways from Facebook whistleblower's…
China's Korean War propaganda movie smashes box office…
Stock plunges at the tiny company responsible for…
Search
World
Africa
Americas
Asia
Australia
China
Europe
India
Middle East
United Kingdom
US Politics
The Biden Presidency
Facts First
Business
Markets
Tech
Media
Success
Perspectives
Videos
Health
Life, But Better
Fitness
Food
Sleep
Mindfulness
Relationships
Entertainment
Stars
Screen
Binge
Culture
Media
Tech
Innovate
Gadget
Foreseeable Future
Mission: Ahead
Upstarts
Work Transformed
Innovative Cities
Style
Arts
Design
Fashion
Architecture
Luxury
Beauty
Video
Travel
Destinations
Food and Drink
Stay
News
Videos
Sports
Football
Tennis
Golf
Tokyo 2020
US Sports
Climbing
Motorsport
Formula E
Esports
Videos
Live TV
Digital Studios
CNN Films
HLN
TV Schedule
TV Shows A-Z
CNNVR
Features
As Equals
Call to Earth
Freedom Project
Impact Your World
Inside Africa
2 Degrees
CNN Heroes
All Features
Weather
Climate
Storm Tracker
Wildfire Tracker
Video
More
Photos
Longform
Investigations
CNN Profiles
CNN Leadership
CNN Newsletters
Work for CNN
FOLLOW CNN BUSINESS
Most stock quote data provided by BATS. Market indices are shown in real time, except for the DJIA, which is delayed by two minutes. All times are ET. Disclaimer. Morningstar: Copyright 2018 Morningstar, Inc. All Rights Reserved. Factset: FactSet Research Systems Inc.2018. All rights reserved. Chicago Mercantile Association: Certain market data is the property of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc. and its licensors. All rights reserved. Dow Jones: The Dow Jones branded indices are proprietary to and are calculated, distributed and marketed by DJI Opco, a subsidiary of S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC and have been licensed for use to S&P Opco, LLC and CNN. Standard & Poor's and S&P are registered trademarks of Standard & Poor's Financial Services LLC and Dow Jones is a registered trademark of Dow Jones Trademark Holdings LLC. All content of the Dow Jones branded indices Copyright S&P Dow Jones Indices LLC 2018 and/or its affiliates.
Terms of Use
Privacy Policy
Accessibility & CC
AdChoices
About Us
Modern Slavery Act Statement
Advertise with us
CNN Store
Newsletters
Transcripts
License Footage
CNN Newsource
Sitemap
© 2021 Cable News Network.A Warner Media Company.All Rights Reserved.
CNN Sans ™ & © 2016 Cable News Network.