World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
October 7, 2021
1:23 AM +06
Last Updated 40 minutes ago
Americas
Auto output dives in Brazil, Mexico as chip shortages bite
By Sharay Angulo and Alberto Alerigi
3 minute read
Cars are seen in a traffic jam during morning rush hour in a period of social isolation in Brasilia, amid the coronavirus disease (COVID-19) outbreak, Brazil April 16, 2020. REUTERS/Ueslei Marcelino
MEXICO CITY/SAO PAULO, Oct 6 (Reuters) - Automotive production in Brazil and Mexico, Latin America's two largest economies, plummeted in September, dragged down by an industry-wide semiconductor chip shortage and railroad blockades in Mexico, data showed on Wednesday.
Brazilian auto production was down 21.3% to 173,287 units in September from the same month in 2020, when the industry was scrambling to resume production from a coronavirus-induced shutdown, Brazilian automakers association Anfavea said.
In Mexico, auto output plunged 33.30% from September 2020 to 208,092 vehicles, while auto exports fell by 24.18% to 195,294 units, data from national statistics agency INEGI showed.
"All of this is due to the shortage of semiconductors, which at this point is affecting all levels of production for all participants in the domestic market," said the head of the Mexican Automotive Industry Association (AMIA), Fausto Cuevas.
A semiconductor chip shortage is causing major auto production cuts around the globe and auto industry officials have warned the problem is getting worse. read more
In the latest fallout from the chip shortfall, Japanese automaker Nissan (7201.T) told Reuters it plans to carry out temporary stoppages at two Mexican plants for several days in October due to adjustments needed to manage the situation. read more
AMIA's Cuevas forecast Mexican automotive exports would decline between 3.8% and 4.2% this year from 2020 and projected production to fall by between 4.7% and 5%, saying Mexico's auto industry would only return to pre-pandemic levels in 2024.
A senior executive at Mexico's Automobile Distributors Association (AMDA) said analysts were forecasting that supply and demand for semiconductor chips would be in balance around the second quarter of 2022.
Compounding carmakers' woes in Mexico have been 86 days of railroad blockades as of Oct. 5 in the western state of Michoacan, home to the key port of Lazaro Cardenas, according to analysis by Grupo Financiero BASE.
Automakers in Brazil lowered projections for sales, output and exports this year, blaming a shortage of parts and a slow economic recovery.
Anfavea, which represents global carmakers such as General Motors (GM.N), Volkswagen and Fiat (STLA.MI) in Brazil, now expects sales of new automobiles in Brazil to either fall by 1% or rise by no more than 3% this year. In July, the association had forecast 13% sales growth from 2020.
Vehicle sales in Brazil fell 10.2% in September from August to 155,075 units, according to Anfavea. Still, automotive output in Brazil did rise 5.6% in September from August.
Reporting by Alberto Alerigi Junior in Sao Paulo, Sharay Angulo and Anthony Esposito in Mexico City, and Ricardo Figueroa in Santiago; Editing by Andrew Heavens, Chris Reese and Hugh Lawson
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
Pfizer vaccine less effective after 6 months: study
Five stories you need to know about today
Australia to buy Merck's COVID-19 pill
Ethiopia's Abiy vows to fend off foreign interference
Pandora Papers 'a blow' to Kenyatta's credibility - analyst
Iraqi Kurds take smugglers' route to Belarus
Nobel Prize for Physics goes to climate trio
French clergy 'abused 216,000 children' since 1950
Russian film crew reach international space station
Climate change killing world's coral reefs - study
Read Next
Government
U.S. Supreme Court justices ask why a Guantanamo detainee cannot testify
Americas
Canada imposes COVID-19 vaccine mandate on federal workers, transportation
Americas
Brazil police find 3 mln euro Nazi haul at home of suspected pedophile
Americas
Pfizer study to vaccinate whole Brazilian town against COVID-19
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Americas
Americas · October 6, 2021 · 6:12 PM +06
A Chilean tree holds hope for new vaccines - if supplies last
Down a dusty farm track in Chilean wine country, behind a wooden gate wrapped in chains, forestry experts are nursing a plantation of saplings whose bark holds the promise of potent vaccines.
Americas
Canada imposes COVID-19 vaccine mandate on federal workers, transportation
1:31 AM +06
Americas
Venezuela's coastal villages, fisherman suffer as oil spills rise
October 6, 2021
Americas
Peruvian community blocks key highway in protest against Glencore mine
October 6, 2021
Americas
Colombia deploys 14,000-strong military unit in restive border region
12:52 AM +06
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved