Register
Sign in
News Noticias Fund Managers & Funds Events Magazines
Register to get unlimited access to all of Citywire’s fund manager database. Registration is free and only takes a minute.
Register for email alerts
Gavekal: Chip shortage might not end 'until 2024 - or even later'
By Richard Lander, Vincent Tsui 22 Sep, 2021
Citywire spoke to Gavekal Asia analyst Vincent Tsui about his recent note ‘The never-ending chip shortage’ (reproduced below).
The deficit of supply is not going away any time soon. As Tsui says in the video interview above: ‘I think [the shortage might end] in 2023, 2024 – or even later.’
The never-ending chip shortage
Nine months after the world’s carmakers began to complain about difficulties sourcing the silicon chips they need to make their automobiles, it is becoming clear these shortages are not just the result of short-lived disruptions.
Sure, the pandemic has played havoc with global hardware supply chains. But Covid is worsening underlying shortcomings baked into the semiconductor manufacturing industry.
This means there will be no early end to the problem, which will weigh on the export performance of East Asia’s manufacturing economies as they struggle to emerge from the Covid pandemic.
Far from getting better, the problems afflicting the world’s automakers are getting worse. In mid-August, Toyota announced it will cut global production by 40% from September, while Ford and General Motors both extended the production downtime at their North American factories.
The supply bottlenecks are not only troubling automakers. Much of the current shortages affect commodity chips, relatively unsophisticated gizmos needed for sensors, display units, power supply controllers and the like contained in a myriad of products.
Yes, Tesla is having trouble sourcing chips for airbags and seat belts. But Whirlpool is also struggling to get hold of microcontrollers for its refrigerators and washing machines.
Even blue-ribbon customers that long enjoyed first call on producers’ supplies are facing problems. Microsoft is short of chips for its Xbox game consoles. And in July, Apple chief executive Tim Cook said shortages of low-end chips are constraining sales of the company’s flagship smartphones and tablets.
These shortages were not created by the pandemic, only revealed by it. For years, even as demand for low-end chips proliferated, suppliers had little incentive to invest in new, highly capital-intensive production facilities for commodity chips, given the slim margins they earn and the meager returns on capital they generate.
However, existing bottlenecks in the supply of low-end chips are not the whole story. The enormous burden of the capital investments needed to compete at the technological frontier in the most advanced chips is also having an impact.
In mid-August, Intel unveiled a new strategy that will see it outsource manufacturing of subcomponents known as ‘tiles’ or ‘chiplets’ to former rival Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing (TSMC).
This highlights the ‘winner takes all’ dynamic at the leading edge of chip development. With its vast scale and capital resources, TSMC is increasingly monopolizing production of the world’s most advanced chips.
As other competitors fall by the wayside, they are outsourcing more of their production to the Taiwanese giant, which is devoting more of its capacity to meeting the demand at the very highest end of the market.
This means fewer resources going into lower-margin products, which is where the bottlenecks are.
The resulting chip shortages are going to ripple along Asia’s supply chains for years to come. Over the last 12 months, the impact has barely dented the region’s headline trade figures.
Export values have captured new highs as producers have made the most of existing capacity and drawn-down inventories. But with exports having surpassed their pre-pandemic peak, from now on, chip shortages will be felt increasingly acutely.
  This will cast a cloud over the outlook for Asian currencies, which over the last 12 months have performed strongly on the back of the region’s export recovery
Now, exports face the risk of disappointment from a high base, even as the US Federal Reserve moves towards tapering and Asian central banks resist tightening. 
The upshot is that investors should favor exposure to Taiwan as the biggest winner from chip shortages, and reduce exposure to Korea as a broader-based exporter, and therefore a relative loser from the continuing bottlenecks.
This piece was originally published by Gavekal and is republished with permission.
A special offer from Gavekal
Gavekal would like to offer Citywire readers a one-month, no-obligation free trial to Gavekal Global Macro Research and Gavekal Dragonomics (China macro research) sent via daily and weekly newsletters.
This will allow you to evaluate if the Gavekal team of partners and analysts could add value to your work process. 
Please click here to access your free trial.
Leave a comment!
Please sign in or register to comment. It is free to register and only takes a minute or two.
Register Sign in
FUND MANAGERS IN THE NEWS
Catherine Wood
Cathie Wood's ARK sets sail for Florida
Alejandro Arevalo
Fund Flash: Jupiter revamps A-rated manager's EMD, Pictet seeks new PM
Winnie Chwang
The Ratings Radar Show: we need to talk about China
Man Wing Chung
The Ratings Radar Show: we need to talk about China
MOST POPULAR
Morgan Stanley recruits UBS int’l specialist for OCIO unit
Alex. Brown recruits $220m int'l advisors for Miami biz
RIA Snowden Lane adds $1.8bn with Wells Fargo advisor hires
Miami wealth shop recruits int'l Wells Fargo advisor
Julius Baer advisors exit to launch Swiss wealth shop
VIDEO
WATCH
Five bond managers to watch in global corporates
‘There is a new bar’: Gatekeepers' need for speed puts pressure on PMs
‘Sometimes you just throw it on mute’: Gatekeepers' biggest gripes with PM virtual calls
The peculiar world of Nigeria's oil-driven wealth industry
Morabanc selection chief: Picking funds the Iberian way
Read More
DISCOVERY
ETF vs. ETF: Which emerging markets fund is better?
China champions: The biggest, the best and three of the rest
Offshore investors back large-caps and blockbuster bond funds
The managers of the biggest and best Asian bond funds
Digging for returns: The best-performing natural resources funds
Read More
COMMUNITY
'We couldn’t understand anything': Offshore gatekeepers' worst manager meetings
Fund analyst teams can average more than 100 fund manager meetings per year, and not all of them will go according to plan. Here are some of our Top 30 Offshore Gatekeepers’ most memorable manager encounters.
Going private: Six advisors reveal top PE plays for LatAm clients
Houston highlights! More images from our International FA event
Howdy y'all! Check out the pics from our International FA event in Houston
How Miami advisors are tackling the great LatAm wealth transfer
'He said I had an inverse home bias': Advisor recalls awkward clash with stubborn PM
Brazilian bonds and blockchain: Advisors' top contrarian calls for 2021
How breakaway advisors can avoid being sued by their former firms
Read More
Back to top
About Us Jobs Contact
Terms and Conditions Cookies Privacy Policy Risk Disclosure Notice Providers Editorial Complaints Anti Slavery Policy
© 2021 citywireamericas.com. All Rights Reserved. View limitations & usage restriction
We use cookies to give you the best experience on our website. You can continue to use the website and we'll assume that you are happy to receive cookies. If you would like to, you can find out more about cookies and managing them at any time here. This site is for Professional Investors only, please read our Risk Disclosure Notice for Citywire’s general investment warnings