Search
RSS
US Edition
Reviews
Best Picks
Raspberry Pi
CPUs
GPUs
Coupons
More
Forums
TRENDING
Alder Lake
Windows 11
Ryzen 5 5600G
Intel Arc Alchemist
Tom's Hardware is supported by its audience. When you purchase through links on our site, we may earn an affiliate commission. Learn more
Home News
China's Mandated Power Cuts Hit Local Semiconductor Sector
By Anton Shilov 3 days ago
But the impact seems to be limited.
Comments (1)
(Image credit: GlobalWafers)
As it turns out, mandated power cuts in several China provinces have so far caused more problems than initially anticipated. Apparently, ASE Technology and GlobalWafers were hit by the industrial blackouts. Chip test and packaging giant ASE Technology that serves pretty much every fabless chip designer, including AMD, has reportedly notified its clients that its production facility in Kunshan will be unable to operate through September 30 due to restrictions, reports DigiTimes. While TSMC and UMC are not affected by electricity supply cuts directly, their partners in the region are. GlobalWafers, a wafer supplier, was ordered to halt production, reports ComputerBase.
Local authorities in China's Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Guangdong provinces do not cut electricity supply to foundries like TSMC, which makes some of the best CPUs for gaming, and UMC since they have continuous production cycles and cannot stop and then restart processing wafers without consequences. Therefore, for now, lithographic chip production in China will not be affected.
There is an issue though. Jiangsu, Zhejiang, and Guangdong provinces are production hubs that have their own supply chains, so if some companies cease operations, others will be affected too since they will not get the necessary supplies on time.
ASE's announcement caused the company's stock to drop 2.6%, reports FocusTaiwan. Meanwhile, the company did not make any announcements with the Taiwan Stock Exchange, so the impact on its business is not too significant. 
Being the world's largest outsourced semiconductor assembly and test (OSAT) company, ASE has manufacturing facilities in various countries and regions, so ceasing operations in Suzhou will affect customers that are served by these plants. The company said that it was shipping products from the facility ahead of schedule late last week in a bid to minimize the impact of mandatory power cuts on its clients. Still, there could be some delays. A day or two production delay may not sound dramatic, but it will cause delays further down the supply chain, which could lead to serious issues with maritime or air freights. 
GlobalWafers also did not make any announcements with the TSE. It is unknown whether TSMC and UMC are going to miss any supplies from GlobalWafers or other companies in the region because of the power cuts. 
There are hundreds of companies in the three provinces affected by the country's decision to cut down energy consumption and CO2 emissions. Therefore, short-term effects on economy and local supply chains is something that is yet to be determined.
In the long term, companies will adjust to offset the effects of mandated temporary energy cuts on their businesses. Some will introduce night shifts at days when energy supply is unlimited while others will increase output in other regions.
MORE ABOUT...
How To Use The Raspberry Pi Sense HAT
How to Build A Person-Following Creepy Head for Halloween with a Raspberry Pi
LATEST
How to Calibrate Your Screen in Windows 11 or 10
SEE MORE LATEST
TOPICS
SYSTEMS
CPUS
GPUS
SEE ALL COMMENTS (1)
Tesla Packs 50 Billion Transistors Onto D1 Dojo Chip Designed to Conquer Artificial Intelligence Training
At Tesla AI day, the company unveiled their most powerful processor for AI training workloads capable of delivering up to 362 TeraFLOPs at FP16 precision.
Tomshardware
Big Boss of internet games!
Can’t find fun online games that are actually fun? Your search is over. Click to start!
Hero Wars
|
Sponsored
PLAY NOW
Work For a UK Company, Live in Bangladesh
UK Jobs | Search Ads
|
Sponsored
Truck driving jobs in Canada might be paying better than you think (see options)
Truck driver jobs Canada | Search ads
|
Sponsored
1 Comment Comment from the forums
InvalidError
Part of the reason for China's power outages is that the price of coal has doubled since the last time the CCP negotiated prices with private coal-fired power plants and those are now operating at a loss so their owners are limiting output to the minimum allowed until contracts expire to cut their losses.

It is estimated that...
Read More Reply
VIEW ALL 1 COMMENT
MOST POPULAR
Some Alder Lake Mobile CPUs Will Pack Xe GT3 iGPUs
By Zhiye Liu1 day ago
Backblaze Data Shows SSDs Failing Almost as Often as Hard Drives
By Aaron Klotz1 day ago
Intel's Core i9-12900K Emerges With Overclocked DDR5-8000 RAM
By Zhiye Liu1 day ago
Raspberry Pi Pico Brings ‘Goblet of Fire’ to Life
By Ash Hill1 day ago
Gaming PCs to Become More Expensive, Monitor Sales Will Boom: IDC
By Anton Shilov1 day ago
Get $40 off This Intel Core i7-11700K CPU and Get Crysis Remastered Trilogy for Free
By Jason England1 day ago
Raspberry Pi Revitalises Retro Film Camera
By Ian Evenden1 day ago
Valve Enables Experimental Nvidia DLSS Support For DirectX 12 in Proton
By Aleksandar Kostovic1 day ago
DDR5 SO-DIMMs for Notebooks Demoed by SanMax
By Anton Shilov1 day ago
New USB Logos Show Charging Capabilities Up to 240W
By Anton Shilov1 day ago
Advertisement
BE IN THE KNOW
Get instant access to breaking news, in-depth reviews and helpful tips.
Contact me with news and offers from other Future brands
Receive email from us on behalf of our trusted partners or sponsors
By submitting your information you agree to the Terms & Conditions and Privacy Policy and are aged 16 or over.
Advertisement
MOST POPULAR
MOST SHARED
1
Best Budget Mechanical Keyboards for 2021
2
Best PC Cases 2021: Our Tested Picks for Your New Build
3
Best Gaming Keyboards for 2021: Mechanical, TKL and More
4
Some Alder Lake Mobile CPUs Will Pack Xe GT3 iGPUs
5
How to Install Fonts on Windows 11 or 10
Advertisement
Tom's Hardware is part of Future US Inc, an international media group and leading digital publisher. Visit our corporate site.
Terms and conditions
Privacy policy
Cookies policy
Accessibility Statement
Advertise
About us
Contact us
Coupons
© Future US, Inc. 11 West 42nd Street, 15th Floor, New York, NY 10036.