HOME
MAIL
NEWS
FINANCE
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFE
YAHOO PLUS
MORE...
Yahoo Finance
Sign in
Mail
Finance
Watchlists
My Portfolio
Screeners
Yahoo Finance Plus
Markets
News
…
U.S. markets closed
S&P 500
4,357.04
+49.50 (+1.15%)
 Dow 30
34,326.46
+482.54 (+1.43%)
 Nasdaq
14,566.70
+118.12 (+0.82%)
 Russell 2000
2,241.63
+37.26 (+1.69%)
 Crude Oil
75.74
+0.71 (+0.95%)
 Gold
1,761.30
+4.30 (+0.24%)
 Silver
22.57
+0.52 (+2.35%)
 EUR/USD
1.1596
+0.0011 (+0.09%)
 10-Yr Bond
1.4650
-0.0640 (-4.19%)
 GBP/USD
1.3553
+0.0077 (+0.57%)
 USD/JPY
111.0500
-0.2400 (-0.22%)
 BTC-USD
48,028.58
+66.44 (+0.14%)
 CMC Crypto 200
1,182.17
+100.09 (+9.25%)
 FTSE 100
7,027.07
-59.35 (-0.84%)
 Nikkei 225
28,771.07
-681.59 (-2.31%)
  FDA approves booster shots, Facebook CTO steps down, White House’s chip shortage meeting
Yahoo Finance's Julie Hyman breaks down Thursday’s business headlines.
White House seeks to address semiconductor chips crisis harming automakers
David Shepardson
September 23, 2021·2 min read
In this article:
F
0.00%
DAI.DE
+0.85%
By David Shepardson 
  WASHINGTON, Sept 23 (Reuters) - The White House will discuss ways to overcome a semiconductor chip supply crisis that is cutting auto production around the world in a new round of meetings with major companies on Thursday. 
  Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and White House National Economic Council director will host companies including Detroit's Big Three automakers General Motors, Ford Motor and Stellantis as well as Apple, Daimler AG, GlobalFoundries, Micron, Microsoft , Samsung, TSMC and others including Intel Corp Chief Executive Pat Gelsinger. 
  The White House plans to release a voluntary request for information this week to get better information on the chips problem from industry and potential solutions to supply chain issues. 
  The administration is seeking comments within 45 days to get details about "supply and demand, inventory, ordering and customer segments," a Biden administration official told reporters Wednesday. 
  "We have other tools in the tool kit to survey firms and require information," the official said, saying they would first seek voluntary efforts. 
  Another official told reporters the Biden administration also plans to stand up a voluntary "early alert system for COVID-19 related shutdowns to microelectronics manufacturing around the world," gathering information from U.S. embassies, impacted businesses and others. 
  The administration wants to ensure it is "maximizing our technical and material assistance to these locations to keep key semiconductor manufacturing facilities and other important facilities up and running." 
  Rising COVID-19 infections have slowed output at parts factories in Vietnam and Malaysia, compounding a global shortage of auto chips. 
  Last month, the economy minister for Taiwan, a major chip maker, said it was doing all it can to address the global shortage of semiconductors. 
Story continues
TRENDING
1.
U.S. administers nearly 394.7 mln doses of COVID-19 vaccines - CDC
2.
A Stock Trader’s Guide to Navigating the Global Energy Crisis
3.
Morrison Recommends CD&R’s Winning $9.5 Billion Takeover Bid
4.
Hermes hosts fashion show at Paris airport hangar
5.
UPDATE 3-Qatar's first legislative elections see 44% voter turnout
Recommended Stories
Investor's Business Daily
Is IBM Stock A Buy Right Now? Here's What Earnings, Charts Show
When Arvind Krishna became chief executive on IBM in April 2020, he immediately prioritized building what the company calls an open, hybrid cloud platform.
1d ago
Yahoo Finance Video
Merck’s COVID-19 pill is a 'huge game changer': Doctor
Dr. Anthony Harris, WorkCare chief innovation officer and associate medical director, joins the Yahoo Finance Live panel to discuss the latest coronavirus developments.&nbsp;
23h ago
Ad
•
Novelodge
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Brilliant Car Cleaning Hacks Local Dealers Wish You Didn’t Know
Yahoo Finance
Why all the change in China matters to us
Changes in China are pronounced and highly visible. What does all this mean for the United States? That the Chinese economy was going to become really big, we all saw it coming a mile away. But we didn’t envision on what terms this would occur.
9h ago
The Wall Street Journal
Countdown Starts on Chinese Company Delistings After Long U.S.-China Audit Fight
U.S. regulators gear up for a three-year countdown that will force many Chinese companies to leave American stock exchanges, after a long impasse between Washington and Beijing over access to the companies’ audit records.
9h ago
Barrons.com
Here Are 3 Things to Do to Maximize Your Social Security Benefits in Retirement
Financial professionals say Americans can maximize their Social Security payout by working at least 35 years, delaying filing until age 70 (or as long as possible), and using spousal benefits.
10h ago
GOBankingRates
How Rich Is Melania Trump?
Former first lady Melania Trump has kept a low profile since she and her husband, former President Donald Trump, left the White House in January. She is rarely seen coming and going from the...
1d ago
Benzinga
Why Ford's Stock Looks Geared Up For A Long Drive North
On Sept. 23, Ford Motors Company (NYSE: F) broke up from a descending trendline that had been holding it down since the June 4 52-week high of $16.45. Ford’s stock shot up over 11% during the four trading days that followed and reached a high of $14.73 before entering into consolidation. See Also: Ford, GM To Extend Production Cuts At Some US Facilities Over Chip Shortage Woes The Ford Chart: The sharp rise higher paired with the consolidation has settled Ford into a bull flag pattern on the dai
1d ago
Yahoo Finance
Donald Trump: 'I got the Pfizer' vaccine, leaves door open to getting booster shot
Former President Donald Trump discusses the COVID-19 pandemic with Yahoo Finance's Adam Shapiro and reveals for the first time he got the Pfizer-Biontech vaccine.
7h ago
MarketWatch
Crude oil prices will go the way of ‘whale oil’ as demand has peaked, says ARK’s Cathie Wood
Much like the whale oil trade at its peak in the mid 1800s, crude oil prices have probably topped. Citing U.S. Energy Information Administration data, the investment manager said global oil demand peaked at 101 million barrels per day (mbd) in 2019, dropped to 92 mbd during the coronavirus in 2020, and has since rebounded to 97 mbd in 2021. “Based on our forecast for EV sales, @ARKInvest believes that oil demand has peaked,” Wood said.
1d ago
MarketWatch
Pfizer loses legal battle with big implications for drug pricing
A federal court has rejected Pfizer’s (PFE) claims against the government in a case with major implications for drug pricing. The pharmaceutical giant’s lawsuit against the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, filed last year, sought a legal green light for proposed programs that would help cover co-pays for Medicare patients prescribed the cardiovascular drug tafamidis, which Pfizer priced at $225,000 a year. In an opinion issued Thursday, Judge Mary Kay Vyskocil of U.S. District Court for the Southern District of New York denied Pfizer’s request for a ruling that the proposed programs would not violate anti-kickback laws.
1d ago
Bloomberg
Saudis Triumph in Oil Market With Comeback From Covid Crisis
(Bloomberg) -- When the OPEC+ alliance of oil producers gathers next week, group leader Saudi Arabia can savor a moment of triumph. Most Read from BloombergWall Street Titans Warn of the Next Big Risks for InvestorsAn Unapologetic Old Boys’ Network Is Costing Australia BillionsThe Unstoppable Appeal of Highway ExpansionThe Country That Makes Breakfast for the World Is Plagued by Fire, Frost and DroughtReshaped by Crisis, an ‘Anti-Biennial’ Reimagines ChicagoEighteen months after slashing crude p
16h ago
Barrons.com
There’s a Worldwide Energy Crunch. Here’s How to Play It.
Investors looking to get exposure to surging prices for natural gas and other fuel sources might consider Cimarex Energy, Marathon Oil, Royal Dutch Shell, and other stocks.
18h ago
Bloomberg
JPMorgan’s Texas Muni Work Becomes Latest Culture War Fallout
(Bloomberg) -- The largest U.S. bank says it’s being shut out of underwriting municipal-bond deals in Texas after the state enacted a law banning government work with banks that limit business with the firearms industry.Most Read from BloombergWall Street Titans Warn of the Next Big Risks for InvestorsAn Unapologetic Old Boys’ Network Is Costing Australia BillionsThe Unstoppable Appeal of Highway ExpansionThe Country That Makes Breakfast for the World Is Plagued by Fire, Frost and DroughtHSBC Be
2d ago
FX Empire
Natural Gas Price Forecast – Natural Gas Markets Continue to Struggle with $6.00
The natural gas markets gapped to kick off the trading session on Friday, but then struggled with the $6.00 level to fall rather significantly.
1d ago
The Wall Street Journal
Ready to Tap Your Retirement Fund? Here’s How to Get Started
Ask Encore: All withdrawal strategies have their advantages and disadvantages. It’s important to understand them.
1d ago
Investopedia
What Will Social Security Look Like When You Retire?
Many workers are not confident that Social Security will be around during their retirement. Here’s what you need to know about its future.
1d ago
MarketWatch
Domestic extremism isn’t purely domestic: How cryptocurrency follows radical-right ideology across international frontiers
Banned by traditional financial institutions, prominent members of the radical right have taken refuge in digital currencies
9h ago
Bloomberg
China’s Coal Miners Told to Produce Even If They’re Over Quotas
(Bloomberg) -- China’s leadership has told the country’s state-owned miners to produce coal at full capacity for the rest of the year even if they exceed annual quota limits as they struggle with the deepening power crisis.Most Read from BloombergWall Street Titans Warn of the Next Big Risks for InvestorsAn Unapologetic Old Boys’ Network Is Costing Australia BillionsThe Unstoppable Appeal of Highway ExpansionThe Country That Makes Breakfast for the World Is Plagued by Fire, Frost and DroughtHSBC
2d ago
WCPO - Cincinnati Scripps
Merck debuts COVID-19 treatment pill
Merck and company research claims this pill could keep more COVID-19 patients alive and 50% more out of hospitals.
23h ago
Investor's Business Daily
Stock Market In Correction; Merck Covid Drug Rocks Moderna, BioNTech: Weekly Review
The stock market fell into a correction as the major indexes and leaders sold off. Merck leapt on a Covid drug, but rocked Moderna, BioNTech.
1d ago