HOME
MAIL
NEWS
FINANCE
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFE
YAHOO PLUS
MORE...
Yahoo Finance
Sign in
Mail
Finance
Watchlists
My Portfolio
Screeners
Yahoo Finance Plus
Markets
News
…
U.S. markets closed
S&P 500
4,357.04
+49.50 (+1.15%)
 Dow 30
34,326.46
+482.54 (+1.43%)
 Nasdaq
14,566.70
+118.12 (+0.82%)
 Russell 2000
2,241.63
+37.26 (+1.69%)
 Crude Oil
75.74
+0.71 (+0.95%)
 Gold
1,761.30
+4.30 (+0.24%)
 Silver
22.57
+0.52 (+2.35%)
 EUR/USD
1.1596
+0.0011 (+0.09%)
 10-Yr Bond
1.4650
-0.0640 (-4.19%)
 GBP/USD
1.3553
+0.0077 (+0.57%)
 USD/JPY
111.0500
-0.2400 (-0.22%)
 BTC-USD
48,022.13
+113.42 (+0.24%)
 CMC Crypto 200
1,182.17
+100.09 (+9.25%)
 FTSE 100
7,027.07
-59.35 (-0.84%)
 Nikkei 225
28,771.07
-681.59 (-2.31%)
 Semiconductor Intellectual Property Global Market Report 2021: COVID-19 Growth And Change
ReportLinker
Wed, September 29, 2021, 5:47 PM·4 min read
Major players in the semiconductor intellectual property market are Arm Holdings, Synopsys, Cadence Design Systems, CEVA Inc. , Imagination Technologies, eMemory Technology Incorporated, Rambus, Mentor Graphics, Faraday Technology, Lattice Semiconductor, Achronix Semiconductor, Dolphin Integration, Open-Silicon, Xilinx, Sonics Inc.
New York, Sept. 29, 2021 (GLOBE NEWSWIRE) -- Reportlinker.com announces the release of the report "Semiconductor Intellectual Property Global Market Report 2021: COVID-19 Growth And Change" - https://www.reportlinker.com/p06152580/?utm_source=GNW
, Fujitsu, MediaTek, VeriSilicon Holdings, Wave computing, Silvaco, and Intel.

The global semiconductor intellectual property (IP) market is expected to grow from $4.60 billion in 2020 to $5.06 billion in 2021 at a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 10%. The growth is mainly due to the companies resuming their operations and adapting to the new normal while recovering from the COVID-19 impact, which had earlier led to restrictive containment measures involving social distancing, remote working, and the closure of commercial activities that resulted in operational challenges. The market is expected to reach $7.02 billion in 2025 at a CAGR of 8.5%.

The semiconductor intellectual property (IP) market consists of sales of semiconductor intellectual property and related services by entities (organizations, sole traders, and partnerships) that provide integrated circuit layout design that is the intellectual property of its creator or party.Semiconductor IP is a piece of design that is a reusable unit of logic or functionality or a layout of a design that is developed with the idea of licensing it to many vendors for using it as a building block in different chip designs.

There is a license fee for its usage or royalty for every device made using that piece of IP.

The main types of design IP in semiconductor intellectual property (IP) are processor IP, interface IP, memory IP, and others.The processor IP offers an intellectual property right for the design of the processor.

Processors are typically produced in the form of soft IP and analog blocks.The different IP cores involve softcore, hardcore and include various revenue sources such as royalty, licensing.

It is implemented in several sectors such as consumer electronics, telecom, automotive, healthcare, and others.

Asia Pacific was the largest region in the semiconductor intellectual property (IP) market in 2020.North America was the second-largest market in the semiconductor intellectual property market.

The regions covered in this report are Asia-Pacific, Western Europe, Eastern Europe, North America, South America, Middle East, and Africa.

New technology launches are a key trend gaining popularity in the semiconductor IP market.Key players in the market are focusing on new technological innovations to maintain a comparative advantage over competitors in the industry.

For example, in June 2020, Imagination Technologies, a UK-based semiconductor company, announced the launch of IMG iEW400, the latest IP based on Ensigma Wi-Fi technology.The iEW400 integrates RF and baseband and is intended for low-power and battery-powered applications such as the internet of things (IoT), wearables, and wearables.

Further, in February 2020, Synopsys, a US-based electronic design automation company that focuses on silicon design and verification, silicon intellectual property, and software security and quality announced the launch of a new DesignWare ARC communications IP subsystem for wireless narrowband IoT designs. The DesignWare ARC IoT Communications IP Subsystem has a low-power ARC EM11D Processor for effective RISC and DSP performance, which is crucial for IoT applications that require low-bandwidth connectivity.

In September 2020, NVIDIA, a US-based semiconductor company acquired Arm Limited from SoftBank Group Corp (SBG) and the SoftBank Vision Fund, for $40 billion.Under this deal, NVIDIA will expand Arm’s IP licensing portfolio with NVIDIA technology.

Arm Limited is a UK-based company offering semiconductor IP.

The growing adoption of connected devices is expected to contribute to the growth of the semiconductor IP market in the forecast period.Physical objects that can communicate with one another and other systems over the internet are referred to as connected devices.

Internet of Things (IoT) is generally referred to as connected devices.These are physical objects that connect with other devices through the internet or various ways such as WiFi, NFC, Bluetooth, mobile networks.

IoT devices are manufactured using electronics such as semiconductors, microprocessors, and other chips. According to Norton, a US-based antivirus and anti-malware software developing company estimates that in 2021 there are around 11.6 billion IoT devices used, and it will grow to 21 billion IoT devices by 2025. The growing adoption of connected devices or IoT devices will drive the semiconductor IP market.

The countries covered in the semiconductor intellectual property market report are Australia, Brazil, China, France, Germany, India, Indonesia, Japan, Russia, South Korea, UK, USA.
Read the full report: https://www.reportlinker.com/p06152580/?utm_source=GNW

About Reportlinker
ReportLinker is an award-winning market research solution. Reportlinker finds and organizes the latest industry data so you get all the market research you need - instantly, in one place.

__________________________
Story continues

TRENDING
1.
U.S. administers nearly 394.7 mln doses of COVID-19 vaccines - CDC
2.
A Stock Trader’s Guide to Navigating the Global Energy Crisis
3.
Morrison Recommends CD&R’s Winning $9.5 Billion Takeover Bid
4.
Hermes hosts fashion show at Paris airport hangar
5.
UPDATE 3-Qatar's first legislative elections see 44% voter turnout
Recommended Stories
MoneyWise
Kiyosaki: 'Biggest crash in world history’ hits in October — 3 ways to protect yourself
'Rich Dad Poor Dad' has a warning. It's time to listen.
4h ago
Simply Wall St.
It Might Not Be A Great Idea To Buy AT&T Inc. (NYSE:T) For Its Next Dividend
It looks like AT&T Inc. ( NYSE:T ) is about to go ex-dividend in the next 4 days. The ex-dividend date is one business...
7h ago
Ad
•
Novelodge
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Brilliant Car Cleaning Hacks Local Dealers Wish You Didn’t Know
Barrons.com
Tesla Deliveries Crushed Expectations. Here’s What Happens Next.
Tesla delivered more than 240,000 cars in the third quarter of 2021. Wall Street was looking for about 225,000 to 230,000 deliveries.
1h ago
Motley Fool
Chevron or Exxon, Which Should Dividend Investors Own Today?
These giant U.S. oil companies are sporting huge yields, but one of them stands ahead of the other for dividend investors. Here's why.
6h ago
MoneyWise
BofA warns oil could hit $100 this winter and spur crisis — protect yourself this way
BofA's red flag could mean a huge profit opportunity for investors.
8h ago
Motley Fool
Want $10,000 in Annual Dividend Income? Invest $114,000 in This Ultra-High-Yield Stock Trio
Since the end of the Great Recession in 2009, growth stocks have rightly been the talk of Wall Street. A 2013 report from J.P. Morgan Asset Management showed that companies initiating and growing their payouts between 1972 and 2012 averaged an annual return of 9.5%. While it's clear that profitable, time-tested companies paying a dividend have delivered superior long-term returns, the question remains: Which dividend stocks to buy?
10h ago
MarketWatch
Should I do that Roth IRA conversion before Congress bans them?
A reader has just written in urging me to take another look at Roth IRAs. This follows my previous column, in which I said I was wary of them, partly because I figured I’ll be paying a lower tax rate in retirement than I am while I’m working. “The tax rate is not the issue; it’s the amount of tax you will be paying,” he reminds me.
4h ago
Motley Fool
Better Semiconductor Stock: ASML vs. Intel
ASML (NASDAQ: ASML) and Intel (NASDAQ: INTC) are two of the most important semiconductor companies in the world. ASML is the top supplier of photolithography systems, which are used to etch circuit patterns into silicon wafers. Intel is the top producer of CPUs for PCs and data centers.
9h ago
MarketWatch
September was a terrible month for stocks. Here’s what you can expect in October.
According to the bull and bear market calendar back to 1900 maintained by Ned Davis Research, nine changes to the U.S. market’s major trend occurred in October. The average number of trend changes across all months is between six and seven. It is true that an above-average number of bear markets in the Ned Davis Research calendar did come to an end during October: eight, versus an all-month average of between three and four.
2d ago
Motley Fool
$10,000 Invested in These Growth Stocks Could Make You a Fortune Over the Next 10 Years
Start with MercadoLibre (NASDAQ: MELI), Advanced Micro Devices (NASDAQ: AMD), and Seagate Technology (NASDAQ: STX), companies whose shares have risen more than 10% this year and more than 100% over the past five years. MercadoLibre is often called the Amazon of Latin America, it is an e-commerce and fintech giant. The company, which started out as an Argentine company in 1999, is now in 18 countries in the region.
9h ago
Motley Fool
Why Is Nio Stock Dropping Despite Record Deliveries?
Shares of electric vehicle maker Nio (NYSE: NIO) rose 3% Friday morning before losing ground as the day progressed, trading down just about 0.5% as of 1:40 p.m. today. The weakness in the EV stock's price is surprising given that Nio reached a milestone and reported solid delivery numbers for September today, even topping its own projections. Nio delivered a record number of 10,628 vehicles in total in September, up 125.7% year over year.
1d ago
Motley Fool
3 Top Artificial Intelligence Stocks to Buy Right Now
Artificial intelligence (AI) has become a buzzword for nearly every company when touting its products and services. What used to be the domain of only a few technology companies is now pervasive in automobiles, drug development, and customer service. Upstart Holdings (NASDAQ: UPST), The Trade Desk (NASDAQ: TTD), and CrowdStrike (NASDAQ: CRWD) were obvious choices.
9h ago
MarketWatch
This is what both Suze Orman and Ramit Sethi say you should do if you’re worried about inflation
“The rate of inflation in the U.S. rose again in July and drove the increase over the past year to a 30-year high,” MarketWatch’s Jeffrey Bartash reported in August. For investors, that news was, no doubt, worrisome, so we looked at what two financial bigwigs, Suze Orman and Ramit Sethi, as well as other pros, have told investors in the past about dealing with inflation (psst: both say you need to keep investing in stocks.) Here (and below) are Bankrate’s list of featured investing products for September. Suze Orman: “Plan on many costs being double what they are today, and keep investing in stocks.”
7h ago
Motley Fool
3 Dividend Stocks to Buy in a Market Crash
While stocks still trade well above bear market territory, the massive increase in many key stocks since March 2020 has prompted concerns that a pullback could come sooner rather than later. Given those factors, stocks such as Chevron (NYSE: CVX), Medical Properties Trust (NYSE: MPW), and Verizon Communications (NYSE: VZ) can serve investors well in a challenging market.
5h ago
Reuters
Tesla vehicle deliveries hit another record in Q3, beats analysts' estimates
Tesla has weathered the chip crisis better than rivals, with its overall deliveries surging 20% in the July to September period from its previous record in the second quarter, marking the sixth consecutive quarter-on-quarter gains. In China, rising exports to Europe and the introduction of a cheaper Model Y helped boost Tesla's production, analysts said. Musk said Tesla suffered an extremely severe parts shortage earlier in the third quarter and had urged employees to make quarter-end delivery push, Reuters reported last month, citing an internal company email.
4h ago
Barrons.com
5 Stocks to Play the Steel Industry’s Revival
Steel companies are benefiting from surging demand and prices, and the future looks bright. Yet, the stocks remain among Wall Street’s cheapest.
21h ago
Bloomberg
Rivian Details $1 Billion Loss, Amazon Deal in IPO Filing
(Bloomberg) -- Rivian Automotive Inc., the maker of electric pickups backed by Amazon.com Inc., disclosed a net loss of almost $1 billion in the first half of the year in its initial public offering paperwork.Most Read from BloombergWall Street Titans Warn of the Next Big Risks for InvestorsAn Unapologetic Old Boys’ Network Is Costing Australia BillionsThe Unstoppable Appeal of Highway ExpansionThe Country That Makes Breakfast for the World Is Plagued by Fire, Frost and DroughtReshaped by Crisis
20h ago
Barrons.com
QuantumScape Competitor Seeks EV Battery Gold in Fool’s Gold
Solid state battery technology company Solid Power announced an award to develop rechargeable EV batteries without costly cobalt and nickel.
1d ago
Yahoo Finance
Identity theft: What I learned after somebody used my SSN to try to trade stocks on Robinhood
An identity thief used my Social Security number and birthday to open up a Robinhood account. Here's what I learned when I dug a little deeper.
1d ago
Motley Fool
Better Cybersecurity Stock: CrowdStrike vs. Palo Alto Networks
Back in January, I compared two well-known cybersecurity stocks, CrowdStrike (NASDAQ: CRWD) and Palo Alto Networks (NYSE: PANW). At the time, I declared that Palo Alto's superior balance of value and growth made it a better buy than CrowdStrike, which seemed far too expensive. CrowdStrike's stock price has risen nearly 20% since I made that call, while Palo Alto's stock price has rallied more than 40%.
8h ago