World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
August 19, 2021
9:42 PM +06
Last Updated a month ago
Autos & Transportation
COVID-fuelled semiconductor crunch chips away at carmakers
By Nick Carey
3 minute read
A car is pictured at the Toyota assembly plant in Zarate, on the outskirts of Buenos Aires, Argentina March 15, 2021. REUTERS/Agustin Marcarian
LONDON, Aug 19 (Reuters) - In grim warnings this week, major carmakers including Toyota (7203.T) and Volkswagen (VOWG_p.DE) offered fresh evidence that the auto industry remains firmly in the grip of an ongoing semiconductor chip shortage that shows no sign of abating.
After being forced to close plants last year as the pandemic took hold, carmakers are now facing stiff competition from the sprawling consumer electronics industry for chip deliveries amid global supply chain disruption.
The latest snarl up comes as COVID-19 cases surge in Asian countries home to auto factories and chip plants such as Japan, Philippines, Thailand, Vietnam and Malaysia, leading to stricter curbs to prevent the spread of the virus.
Japan's Toyota, thanks to a policy of stockpiling chips that dates back a decade to the 2011 earthquake and Fukushima nuclear disaster, had largely managed to avoid production cuts. read more
But the world's largest automaker by sales volumes said on Thursday it will slash global production for September by 40% from its previous plan, affecting 14 plants in Japan and elsewhere, including most of its North American factories. read more
Automobiles have become increasingly dependent on chips for everything from computer management of engines for better fuel economy to driver-assistance features such as emergency braking.
Germany's Volkswagen also said on Thursday that it couldn't rule out further changes to production. read more
"We currently expect supply of chips in the third quarter to be very volatile and tight," the No.2 volume carmaker behind Toyota told Reuters.
World No. 4 Stellantis (STLA.MI) joined the chorus, saying it would halt production at a plant in western France next week and cut output at another factory in the eastern part of the country.
Ford Motor Co (F.N) had already said earlier this week that it will temporarily halt building its best-selling, profit-driving F-150 pickup truck at its Kansas City assembly plant, while China's Geely Automobile Holdings Ltd (0175.HK) warned the recent worsening of the chip shortage and resurgence of COVID-19 cases could pose a "significant threat" to its sales performance over the next few months. read more
Although Volkswagen said it expected the situation to improve by the end of the year, some carmakers have warned the chip crisis will drag on into 2022 with earlier industry hopes of a quick resolution long since dashed. read more
As numerous American auto production lines stand idle, at least part of the time, a trio of Democratic senators asked the Taiwanese government for more help to address the chip shortage, according to a letter reviewed by Reuters. read more
But even when one kink in the supply chain gets straightened out, others appear, making it difficult to ensure a consistent flow of chips and leaving damage-limitation focused automakers pushing available components to their more profitable models.
"The situation does remain fluid," General Motors Co (GM.N) Chief Executive Mary Barra said on a conference call on August 4, noting the impact of events such as the current COVID-19 spike in Malaysia.
Additional reporting by Ben Klayman in Detroit; Editing by Kirsten Donovan
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
S. Korea firm sues Netflix over 'Squid Game'
The Week in Numbers: dry pumps and squid games
Delayed Expo 2020 opens doors in Dubai
Self-driving Aurora maps out route to profit
Ukraine demands Gazprom sanctions over gas deal
Legal Lookahead: U.S. Supreme Court returns to work
China's high-tech military might soars at air show
As wages soar, truckers in UK predict Xmas chaos
Russia may fine Facebook over banned content
China's factories fear for future amid power cuts
Read Next
Autos & Transportation
Tesla vehicle deliveries hit another record in Q3, beats analysts' estimates
Autos & Transportation
VW labour boss wants faster electric car rollout at Wolfsburg - Braunschweiger Zeitung
Autos & Transportation
Toyota outsells GM in U.S. for first nine months of 2021
United States
U.S. Transportation Department furloughs 3,700 employees
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Autos & Transportation
Autos & Transportation · 2:07 AM +06
Tesla vehicle deliveries hit another record in Q3, beats analysts' estimates
Tesla Inc said on Saturday it had delivered a record electric cars in the third quarter, beating Wall Street estimates after Chief Executive Elon Musk asked staff to "go super hardcore" to make a quarter-end delivery push.
Autos & Transportation
VW labour boss wants faster electric car rollout at Wolfsburg - Braunschweiger Zeitung
October 2, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Toyota outsells GM in U.S. for first nine months of 2021
October 2, 2021
Autos & Transportation
EXCLUSIVE GM aims to profit from software as it broadens its EV lineup
October 1, 2021
Autos & Transportation
Foxconn, Lordstown Motors to pursue U.S. loan for EV factory
October 1, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved