Subscribe
Donate
Federal Taxes
State Taxes
Global Taxes
Blog
TaxEDU
Podcasts
About Us
Boost Semiconductor Manufacturing by Removing Tax Barriers—Not Creating Tax Subsidies
June 18, 2021
Erica York
A bipartisan group of Senators introduced the Facilitating American-Built Semiconductors (FABS) Act this week to create a permanent 25 percent investment tax credit for investments in semiconductor manufacturing equipment and construction of related facilities—but their proposal would not address underlying bias against investment that exists in the tax code today. Rather than provide industry-specific tax subsidies, lawmakers should make sure the basic structure of the tax code is not tilted against domestic investment generally.
The FABS Act would provide firms a tax credit (or a direct payment) equal to 25 percent of their qualified investment in semiconductor manufacturing facilities and property, reducing a firm’s tax liability and decreasing the after-tax cost of making such investments. However, the bill would leave the current depreciation system unchanged, meaning businesses would have to deduct the costs of building new facilities over extended periods, a delay that diminishes the real value of the deductions due to inflation and the time value of money.
Semiconductor manufacturing facilities, called “foundries,” and the related manufacturing equipment are extremely expensive to build. For example, Samsung is considering a $17 billion foundry in Austin, Texas, and the Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company is constructing an almost $20 billion foundry in southern Taiwan. The bill text itself emphasizes that a building and its structural components are “an integral part of a semiconductor manufacturing facility.”
Under current law, investment in industrial factories, such as a semiconductor foundry, cannot be deducted immediately but instead must be deducted over a 39-year period. The tax treatment of short-lived assets, such as some of the machinery and equipment that would go inside a foundry, is currently eligible for 100 percent bonus depreciation. That provision allows full write-offs in the year an asset is placed in service, but it will begin phasing out in 2023. Research and development expenses, also crucial to the semiconductor industry, are currently eligible for full expensing, but beginning next year will instead be amortized over five years.
If a business builds a foundry, it would not be able to fully deduct the cost of its investment, increasing the after-tax cost of the project. In 2021, structures such as industrial factories face a marginal effective tax rate of 21 percent, compared to 7.5 percent for equipment. By 2030, the rates will rise to 25.6 percent and 23.7 percent, under current law.
Attracting investment to the United States should start with neutral tax treatment, including full and immediate deductions for capital investment, not subsidies. By denying full and immediate deductions for investments, the tax code increases the cost of making such investments in the first place. Removing the tax code’s bias against making a domestic investment of any sort should be prioritized above exploring industry-specific tax subsidies.
2021 Launch Tax Tracker
Stay Informed on Tax Policy Research and Analysis
      Select State
      Alabama
      Alaska
      Arizona
      Arkansas
      California
      Colorado
      Connecticut
      Delaware
      District of Columbia
      Florida
      Georgia
      Hawaii
      Idaho
      Illinois
      Indiana
      Iowa
      Kansas
      Kentucky
      Louisiana
      Maine
      Maryland
      Massachusetts
      Michigan
      Minnesota
      Mississippi
      Missouri
      Montana
      Nebraska
      Nevada
      New Hampshire
      New Jersey
      New Mexico
      New York
      North Carolina
      North Dakota
      Ohio
      Oklahoma
      Oregon
      Pennsylvania
      Rhode Island
      South Carolina
      South Dakota
      Tennessee
      Texas
      Utah
      Vermont
      Virginia
      Washington
      West Virginia
      Wisconsin
      Wyoming
     Was this page helpful to you?
Yes! No
Share
Tweet
Share
Email
Topics
Center for Federal Tax Policy
Business Taxes
Trade-offs: Evaluating Tax Reform Options
We modeled 70 changes to the U.S. tax code. Here’s how each would affect the economy, federal revenue, and the distribution of the tax burden.
Launch Interactive Tool
How Will COVID-19 Impact Your Taxes?
Stay informed with our COVID-19 resource center, updated weekly with leading research and analysis.
Launch Resource Center
Related Articles
Florida Lawmakers Should Provide Certainty Around the State’s Corporate Income Tax Rate Reduction
Federal Plastics Tax Is Not a Good Revenue Raiser
How Heavily Taxed Are U.S. Multinationals?
Carbon Tax: Weighing the Options for Financing Reconciliation
History of Attempted Changes to Step-Up in Basis Shows Perilous Road Ahead
U.S. Corporate Income Faces Third-Highest Integrated Tax Rate in OECD Under Ways and Means Plan
Help us achieve our vision of a world where the tax code doesn't stand in the way of success.
Subscribe Contribute
About Us
The Tax Foundation is the nation’s leading independent tax policy nonprofit. Since 1937, our principled research, insightful analysis, and engaged experts have informed smarter tax policy at the federal, state, and global levels. For over 80 years, our goal has remained the same: to improve lives through tax policies that lead to greater economic growth and opportunity.
More Links
Donate
Press Room
Careers
Events
Connect
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
YouTube
Podcast
Contact Us
Tax Foundation
1325 G St NW
Suite 950
Washington, DC 20005
202-464-6200
Copyright Tax Foundation 2021 Copyright Notice Privacy Policy
Share to Google Bookmark
Share to Facebook
Share to Twitter
Share to Print
Share to Email
More AddThis Share options
SHARES