SKIP TO CONTENT
RANKINGS
MAGAZINE
NEWSLETTERS
PODCASTS
COVID-19
MORE
SEARCH
SIGN IN
Subscribe Now
Most Popular
Five biggest myths about the COVID-19 vaccines, debunked
PAID CONTENT
Mental health care goes virtual
FROM GINGER
Inside luxury cruise operator Ponant’s new electric hybrid ship
Hard right turn: Companies are toeing the political line in business-friendly red states
TECHFORTUNE BRAINSTORM
Semiconductors are in short supply. 3 experts weigh in on what to do about it
BY 
AMENA SAAD
June 29, 2021 1:45 AM GMT+6
Subscribe to Fortune Daily to get essential business stories straight to your inbox each morning.
Semiconductors power almost any smart device you own. They’re small, complex, and powerful pieces of hardware that are integral to the operation of everyday products like cars and computers. And right now, they’re in short supply.
PAID CONTENT
4 steps for modernizing your data infrastructure
FROM DELOITTE
O’Mara joins Michal Lev-Ram and Brian O’Keefe, the hosts of Fortune Brainstorm, to discuss the history of semiconductor manufacturing in the U.S., how it’s since moved offshore, and why the government should invest not only in domestic plants and manufacturing, but also in people and ideas to support innovation and the broader growth of the American tech sector.
Also on the show, Lev-Ram talks to Ondrej Burkacky, who studies the global semiconductor industry as a consultant at McKinsey & Company. Burkacky explains why big tech companies can’t just start manufacturing semiconductors domestically to account for the shortage. He also describes the challenges that come along with trying to accurately forecast semiconductor demand, especially during a pandemic.
O’Keefe later interviews Tyson Tuttle, CEO of Silicon Labs, a global semiconductor company based in Austin, Texas. Tuttle says he believes that the demand for semiconductors will continue to increase, referencing American-based companies such as Tesla, Apple, and Amazon, all of which are now designing their own chips. 
Whether it’s “autonomous driving, in the case of Tesla, or higher-speed data centers that are going into some of the large companies,” Tuttle says, such cutting-edge technology has prompted U.S.-based companies to expand over the last five years. Tuttle says he remains optimistic about the United States’s position as a leader in the industry.
Related Articles
POLITICS
The Biden administration is preparing for a historic expansion of a key department to address the semiconductor shortage
September 28, 2021
BY 
NICOLE GOODKIND
TECH
Arizona emerges as manufacturing hotspot in U.S. push to insulate semiconductor supply from China
February 23, 2021
BY 
EAMON BARRETT
HEALTH
With billions spent and ‘wartime’ declared, why are vaccines still in short supply?
February 23, 2021
BY 
RACHANA PRADHAN
, 
ARTHUR ALLEN
AND OTHERS
POLITICS
Biden administration sounds the alarm on the semiconductor crisis
July 16, 2021
BY 
NICOLE GOODKIND
AUTO
Chipmakers to carmakers: Time to get out of the semiconductor Stone Age
September 17, 2021
BY 
CHRISTIAAN HETZNER