Subscribe
Sign In
Sep 5, 2021,07:00am EDT|8,959 views
SoftBank And Arm’s Five-Year, $54 Billion Semiconductor Saga Is Nearing Its Finale
Kevin DowdForbes Staff
Money
I write about buyouts, mergers, acquisitions and other dealmaking.
This is an excerpt from Deal Flow, Forbes’ daily newsletter about big buyouts, big mergers and the rest of Big Finance. Want a new edition in your inbox every afternoon? Subscribe here.
Over the past few years, the semiconductor sector has been beset by mega-mergers. A half-dozen different deals in the space worth at least $10 billion have gone on the books since the start of 2020. And with industry giants such as Intel actively hunting for takeover targets, there's no end in sight to all that consolidation.
The biggest deal of the past couple years came early last fall, when Nvidia agreed to acquire Arm from SoftBank in a move then worth $40 billion. Since then, though, the planned combination has become mired in regulatory muck. It's still unclear whether Nvidia will be allowed to proceed with its industry-shaking takeover.
But we could be on the brink of a significant development in the saga. And as it so happens, today is the five-year anniversary of the day when Arm officially entered SoftBank ownership. So it seemed like an appropriate time to hop in our Takeover Time Machine™ and look back on how Arm, SoftBank and Nvidia got to where they are today—and at what might come next for a deal that keeps getting bigger with each passing month.
Masayoshi Son and SoftBank are trying to cash in their bet on Arm—but regulators might have other ideas. GETTY IMAGES
Arm was founded in 1990 as a joint venture between Apple, Acorn Computers and VLSI Technology to research and develop microprocessors for special types of machines known as reduced instruction set computers, or RISCs. (The name Arm is an acronym for Advanced RISC Machines.) The venture proved extremely successful. Today, Arm owns the intellectual property that underlies much of the global consumer tech industry. Its licensed technology powers chips made by companies such as Qualcomm and Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing that are then used in smartphones, tablets, smart TVs and other products from the likes of Apple, Samsung and Huawei.
When the company went public in 1998 through simultaneous listings in the U.S. and London, it was an immediate hit. Arm shares climbed nearly 50% on their first day of trading, taking its market cap north of $1 billion.
Over the ensuing years, Arm continued to grow—mainly through organic means of building its existing business, but also through several smaller instances of M&A. The U.K.-based company's biggest acquisition came in 2004, when it bought chip component maker Artisan Components for $913 million. After nearly two decades as a standalone public company, Arm then became an M&A target of its own: In July 2016, SoftBank agreed to buy the company for £23.4 billion, or about $32 billion at the time. The deal was finalized a few months later, on Sept. 5, 2016.
SoftBank is no stranger to making huge bets on companies at the nexus of worldwide technological shifts. Led by founder Masayoshi Son, the Japanese company first rose to prominence in the late 1990s as an early investor in digital pioneers Yahoo and Alibaba. Son has previously said that, for one three-day stretch amid the peak of the dot-com bubble, he was the richest man in the world. Before long, though, that bubble burst. SoftBank cratered, and Son has spent the past two decades trying to build a new, sturdier version of a tech investing colossus.
In 2017, SoftBank launched the Vision Fund. It was the biggest investing vehicle anyone in venture capital had ever seen: Some $100 billion dollars, a large chunk of it provided by the Public Investment Fund of Saudi Arabia, a previously unimaginable pool of capital which SoftBank and Son quickly went to work deploying. The Vision Fund began to pump huge sums of capital into young startups from around the world to foster immediate growth, taking the idea of blitzscaling to the extreme and creating new unicorns at a breakneck pace. Powerhouses like WeWork, Uber, Grab, Compass, DoorDash, Coupang and ByteDance make up just a small sample of Son's eventual portfolio.
The same year the vehicle launched, SoftBank transferred a 25% stake in Arm into its Vision Fund. A year later, in 2018, it sold a 51% stake in Arm Technology China to a group that included Chinese investors such as Hopu Investments, Silk Road Fund and the state-owned China Investment Corporation. In the years since, Arm and those investors have tussled over who actually controls the Chinese subsidiary. When Arm tried to oust the unit's leader, Allen Wu, over allegations that his personal investment fund created a conflict of interest, Wu refused to leave, launching a power struggle that has yet to be publicly resolved.
On the whole, though, Arm continued to thrive under SoftBank's ownership, buoyed by the global currents that have made semiconductors of all kinds an increasingly critical part of daily life. When SoftBank began searching for an exit, it didn't take long to find a buyer. On Sept. 13, 2020, chipmaker Nvidia agreed to buy Arm in a cash-and-stock deal that, at the time was worth $40 billion. With Nvidia's stock price soaring over the past year as the proposed deal has simmered under regulatory review, the true value of the transaction is now pegged at closer to $54 billion.
Nvidia was founded not long after Arm, in 1993. With early backing from venture firms including Sequoia, the company focused on building graphics processing units for video games. Since then, the utility of such GPUs has expanded—and so have the rest of Nvidia's product offerings. It still makes chips for gamers, but the California-based company also builds products for super computers, smartphones and more. With a market cap of more than $500 billion, it's one of the most powerful companies in the semiconductor industry, competing with names like Intel, Qualcomm and Advanced Micro Devices.
So why have British regulators raised concerns about Nvidia's planned acquisition of Arm? The primary answers are in those past two paragraphs. Arm owns patents for semiconductor technology that is, as I wrote, an increasingly critical part of daily life. And Nvidia is one of a few biggest companies that uses that technology to make its own chips. If Nvidia were to own Arm outright, it would create the possibility that Arm might stop selling or licensing its technology to the Intels and the AMDs of the world, smothering competition in an industry where competition has long been seen as key to fostering new innovation.
The U.K. has also raised questions about the national security implications of the deal—a sign of how integral the semiconductor industry has become in the realms of war and national defense.
For many months now, the U.K.'s Competition and Markets Authority had been looking into whether the takeover would be harmful to competition. Two weeks ago, it published an initial 10-page report concluding the acquisition would indeed "lead to a realistic prospect of a substantial lessening of competition, and consequently to a stifling of innovation, and more expensive or lower quality products." Nvidia proposed certain unspecified remedies to address those concerns, but the CMA was unenthused. On deck now is a more in-depth investigation into the deal's potential implications.
And the CMA might not be the only body taking a closer look. The Financial Times reported late last week that the European Commission is planning to launch a formal probe of its own to examine competition concerns raised by the Nvidia-Arm deal, with the investigation set to begin as soon as this week.
After nearly a year of waiting around, Nvidia, Arm and SoftBank are finally getting some answers about whether they will be able to consummate a merger that, in some ways, has been three decades in the making. That's the good news. The bad news is that, so far, those answers are not to their liking.
Follow me on Twitter. Send me a secure tip. 
Kevin Dowd
I am a staff writer at Forbes covering private equity and M&A. I previously wrote about the private markets for PitchBook, where I created the Weekend Pitch newsletter. I… Read More
Print
Reprints & Permissions