Fox Business
Personal Finance
Economy
Markets
Watchlist
Lifestyle
Real Estate
Tech
TV
Podcasts
More
Expand / Collapse search
Login
Watch TV
EUROPE Published September 29
US, EU deepen alliance to boost 'underpin' of global economies: semiconductors
U.S.-EU ties with Japan suggest an increased effort to distance themselves from China
Facebook
Twitter
Comments
Print
Email
By Caitlin McFall FOXBusiness
Fox Business Flash top headlines for September 29
Check out what's clicking on FoxBusiness.com.
The U.S. and European Union pledged Wednesday to deepen its alliance for the sake of advancing common priorities like artificial intelligence, trade challenges and the "underpin" to global economies: semiconductors.
"Semiconductors are the material basis for integrated circuits that are essential to modern-day life and underpin our economies," U.S.-EU Trade and Technology Council said in a joint statement. "As such, semiconductors power virtually every sector of the economy, including energy, healthcare, agriculture, consumer electronics, manufacturing, defense, and transportation."
The council said the coronavirus pandemic highlighted the need to increase stable and reliable supply chains for the production of semiconductors.
CHINESE SWITCH TO FLASHLIGHTS, GENERATORS AMID POWER CUTS 
Chip shortages began under the Trump administration, when supply chains were affected by the trade war with China. But chip shortages were further exacerbated by an increased demand for electronics on everything from laptops to at-home health care during the pandemic. 
"We recognize that the semiconductor supply chain, from raw materials, design and manufacturing to assembly, testing and incorporation into end products, is extremely complex and geographically dispersed," the council said. "The United States and European Union have some important respective strengths as well as ongoing, significant mutual dependencies, and common external dependencies."
Secretary of State Antony Blinken and Secretary of Commerce Gina Raimondo traveled to Pittsburgh to meet with European Commission Executive Vice Presidents Valdis Dombrovskis and Margrethe Vestager to bolster ties, as relations between the U.S. and Europe have become strained.
EU Internal Market Commissioner Thierry Breton warned last week that there is a growing sense that the U.S.-trans Atlantic relationship is "broken" and suggested it was time to "pause and reset" the partnership.
Breton’s comments came after France was sidelined in a U.S.-U.K. deal with Australia that effectively voided an existing submarine contract with the EU nation. 
The commissioner was not present for Wednesday’s council meeting in Pittsburgh, but his social media suggested Breton was working to extend the EU's reach into the global chip market.
On Wednesday Breton announced on Twitter he was in Japan facilitating an EU-Japan "cooperation" and preparing the "ground for our upcoming EU Chip Act."
The U.S. similarly has looked to strengthen this alliance with Japan and bolster semiconductor production. 
The joint U.S.-EU interest in Japan could signal an increased push to distance themselves from China. 
GET FOX BUSINESS ON THE GO BY CLICKING HERE
The council pledged to "stand together" against "unfair behavior of state-owned enterprises," though the statement did not directly identify China. 
"We intend to focus on reducing existing strategic dependencies throughout the supply chain, especially through a diversification of the supply chain and increased investment," the council said, adding they will "work jointly so that any investment made on our territories is done in full respect of our respective security of supply."
Markets
Quotes displayed in real-time
Market Update sponsored by
Advertisement
Latest on Fox Business
12 mins ago
Powerball jackpot worth $635 million among largest in history
25 mins ago
Tom Brady just as successful off the field as he is on it
1 hour ago
Tesla reports stronger-than-expected Q3 sales
4 hours ago
Cost of shipping container from China to US hits record high in September
5 hours ago
2021 Western wildfires: the economic toll
Your Money
October 1
Mortgage rates rise over 3% for first time since June: Freddie Mac data
October 1
Wells Fargo study shows most Americans not ready for natural disasters: How you can prepare
October 1
The Platinum Card® from American Express review: Big benefits balance big annual fee
October 1
Failure to lift debt ceiling may cause mortgage rates to rise, report finds: Why you should refinance now
October 1
30-, 10-year mortgage refinance rates slip back to bargain levels | Oct. 1, 2021
Advertisement
Personal Finance
Mortgages
Student Loans
Credit Cards
Personal Loans
Savings
Insurance
401k
Retirement
Tax Planning
Economy
Government Spending
Money & Policy
2020 Campaign
Small Business
Markets
Pre-Markets
US Markets
Futures & Commodities
Bonds
Funds & ETFs
Business Leaders
Industries
Retail
Watchlist
Lifestyle
Rich & Famous
Travel
Cars
Airplanes
Food & Drinks
Arts
Real Estate
Personal
Commercial
Luxury Properties
Tech
Digital
Social Media
Gadgets
Business Tech
Healthcare Tech
Future Tech
AI
Space
Sports
NFL
NBA
MLB
NASCAR
Boxing
Soccer
Golf
Tennis
Opinion
Shows
Mornings with Maria
Varney & Co
Cavuto: Coast to Coast
Making Money with Charles Payne
The Claman Countdown
Bulls & Bears
The Evening Edit
Kennedy
Strange Inheritance with Jamie Colby
Maria Bartiromo's Wall Street
WSJ at Large with Gerry Baker
Barron's Roundtable
About
Channel Finder
Jobs
Terms of Use
Updated Privacy Policy
FAQ
Media Relations
Corporate Information
Closed Captioning Policy
Accessibility Statement
Fox News
Fox Nation
Fox Business Go
Apps & Products
Facebook
Twitter
Fox Business
New Terms of Use New Privacy PolicyDo Not Sell my Personal Information Help Closed Captioning Policy
Quotes displayed in real-time or delayed by at least 15 minutes. Market data provided by Factset. Powered and implemented by FactSet Digital Solutions.  Legal Statement. Mutual Fund and ETF data provided by Refinitiv Lipper.
This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed. ©2021 FOX News Network, LLC. All rights reserved. FAQ - New Privacy Policy