HOME
MAIL
NEWS
FINANCE
SPORTS
ENTERTAINMENT
LIFE
YAHOO PLUS
MORE...
Download the Yahoo News app
Yahoo News
Sign in
Mail
News
US
Politics
World
COVID-19
Climate Change
Originals
Health
Science
…
Close this content
Semiconductor shortage that has hobbled manufacturing worldwide is getting worse
microchip integrated on motherboard
Jeanne Whalen, (c) 2021, The Washington Post
September 24, 2021·6 min read
In this article:
Gina Raimondo
American politician
The global semiconductor shortage that has paralyzed automakers for nearly a year shows signs of worsening, as new coronavirus infections halt chip assembly lines in Southeast Asia, forcing more car companies and electronics manufacturers to suspend production.
A wave of delta-variant cases in Malaysia, Vietnam and the Philippines is causing production delays at factories that cut and package semiconductors, creating new bottlenecks on top of those caused by soaring demand for chips.
Subscribe to The Post Most newsletter for the most important and interesting stories from The Washington Post.
Underscoring that the problem has defied easy solutions, the White House on Thursday held its second summit in five months with semiconductor manufacturers and buyers, in part to gain more clarity on the scope of the crisis, senior administration officials said.
Attendees included senior executives from Intel, General Motors, Ford, Apple, Microsoft, Samsung and two dozen other companies, as well as Commerce Secretary Gina Raimondo and National Economic Council Director Brian Deese.
Frustration has mounted on all sides. Automakers want semiconductor companies to crank out more chips for cars. Smartphone companies do not want their semiconductors diverted to automakers. Chip manufacturers say the auto industry shot itself in the foot by canceling semiconductor orders after the covid crisis hit. They are also impatient for Congress to approve $52 billion in federal subsidies to boost domestic semiconductor manufacturing. That measure, supported by the White House, has cleared the Senate but not the House.
The Biden administration, meanwhile, says that while it can play a supporting role, it expects the private sector to take the lead in sorting out the crisis.
"It's on industry to come up with the solutions here and to identify some of the path forward," one of the administration officials said Wednesday, speaking on the condition of anonymity to preview Thursday's meeting.
Story continues
Our goal is to create a safe and engaging place for users to connect over interests and passions. In order to improve our community experience, we are temporarily suspending article commenting
Recommended Stories
NBCU
The Jan. 6 committee hopes 11 more subpoenas will answer their biggest questions
Executive producer of Showtime’s "The Circus" John Heilemann and White House correspondent for PBS NewsHour Yamiche Alcindor discuss the Jan. 6 committee issuing more subpoenas targeting Trump’s key allies who helped plan the rally before the Capitol riot
2d ago
KGUN - Tucson Scripps
Arizona grocery chain Bashas’ sold to California grocer
An Arizona grocery chain has been sold to an independent regional California grocer.
15h ago
Ad
•
Novelodge
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Brilliant Car Cleaning Hacks Local Dealers Wish You Didn’t Know
GOBankingRates
Grocery Store Shortages Comparable to 2020 — Are You Prepared for Lack of Supply During the Holidays?
While it's still unclear whether the Delta variant will put a damper on holiday celebrations, according to the Wall Street Journal, some executives are preparing for U.S. consumers to have larger...
8h ago
MarketWatch
‘Right to repair’ law may run into the changing definition of ‘ownership’
If you buy something today, what exactly are you buying? Opinions on that "what" are very divided, and the answer could determine the path of a push to give Americans the "right to repair" the things they have purchased.
1d ago
Reuters Videos
S. Korea firm sues Netflix over 'Squid Game'
Netflix has a surprise global hit. Gory South Korean drama "Squid Game" is its number one show in the U.S., and huge around the world. Now internet service provider SK Broadband says the video streaming firm needs to pay up.The company on Friday (October 1) announced that it has sued Netflix.It wants it to contribute to costs from increased network traffic and maintenance work.SK is streaming 1.2 trillion bits of data a second as a result of "Squid Game" and other hit series. The legal move comes after a Seoul court said Netflix should give something in return for network usage.Netflix said it would review SK Broadband's claim, and work with the firm to ensure customers are not affected.It is South Korea's second-largest data traffic generator after Google's YouTube.But SK Broadband says the two are the only ones to not pay network usage fees.It says Amazon, Apple and Facebook are all payingNetflix data traffic handled by SK jumped 24 times from May 2018, riding on the success of several productions from Korea including "Squid Game" and "D.P."SK estimated the network usage fee Netflix needed to pay was nearly $23 million in 2020 alone.
1d ago
Business Insider
Coca-Cola turns to bulk vessels normally used for grain and coal to transport manufacturing materials amid shipping crisis
The beverage company is ready to do whatever it takes to transport its products to manufacturers across the globe.
3h ago
Business Insider
Wells Fargo's Mike Mayo expects automation to kill off 100,000 banking jobs: 'It's really a swap to bots from bankers'
Wells Fargo managing director Mike Mayo predicted two-thirds of the cuts would be in back-office jobs and that a third would hit front-office roles.
1d ago
LA Times
Traffic lights gone dark. Factories shut down. What caused China's power crisis?
Sudden blackouts have highlighted vulnerabilities in China's power sector and economy: overreliance on coal and overemphasis on growth, which coincided with rising coal prices this year to create a nationwide energy shortage.
10h ago
Benzinga
Why Ford's Stock Looks Geared Up For A Long Drive North
On Sept. 23, Ford Motors Company (NYSE: F) broke up from a descending trendline that had been holding it down since the June 4 52-week high of $16.45. Ford’s stock shot up over 11% during the four trading days that followed and reached a high of $14.73 before entering into consolidation. See Also: Ford, GM To Extend Production Cuts At Some US Facilities Over Chip Shortage Woes The Ford Chart: The sharp rise higher paired with the consolidation has settled Ford into a bull flag pattern on the dai
1d ago
Bloomberg
China’s Coal Miners Told to Produce Even If They’re Over Quotas
(Bloomberg) -- China’s leadership has told the country’s state-owned miners to produce coal at full capacity for the rest of the year even if they exceed annual quota limits as they struggle with the deepening power crisis.Most Read from BloombergWall Street Titans Warn of the Next Big Risks for InvestorsAn Unapologetic Old Boys’ Network Is Costing Australia BillionsThe Unstoppable Appeal of Highway ExpansionThe Country That Makes Breakfast for the World Is Plagued by Fire, Frost and DroughtHSBC
2d ago
Quartz
China’s power consumption reflects the role of US shoppers too
Across China, lights are flickering off at homes and stoplights. Clothing manufacturers, aluminum smelters and factories turning out components for the likes of Apple and Tesla, are limiting production as provinces across China ration power. Constraints in supply shaped by factors like high coal prices and low electricity prices are bumping up against high demand, both from residential use and from a manufacturing boom driven by shoppers in the United States.
1d ago
Reuters
Malaysia's help needed to ease global chip shortage, Taiwan says
TAIPEI (Reuters) -Malaysia's help is needed to resolve the global shortage of auto semiconductors, especially when it comes to packaging, a sector affected by the country's COVID-19 curbs, Taiwan Economy Minister Wang Mei-hua said. Taiwan, as a major chip producer, has been front and centre of efforts to resolve the shortage, which has idled auto plants around the world. Speaking in an interview late on Thursday at her ministry, Wang told Reuters that Taiwan alone could not sort out the problem because the supply chain is so complex.
2d ago
Reuters
China gorges on American grain-fed beef amid shrinking supplies from Down Under
As Australian beef exports to China wither amid diplomatic tensions, demand there for U.S. grain-fed beef has soared, fuelled by the appetites of a growing Chinese middle class. Hotpot restaurants, Japanese barbecue chains and steakhouses, all expanding in the world's No. 2 economy, are swapping out Australian beef for U.S. meat. Several Australian suppliers were banned last year and shipments from others take too long to clear customs.
2d ago
American City Business Journals
Local company poised for growth after signing multi-year agreement with major airline
The deal will support the company's continued growth in the region, including new employees and a possible facility expansion.
1d ago
Yahoo Finance Video
This 'is a perfect storm' of supply chain issues: project44 SVP
Adam Compain, project44 SVP, joined Yahoo Finance Live to discuss the supply chain issues plaguing the US.
2d ago
MarketWatch
Should I do that Roth IRA conversion before Congress bans them?
A reader has just written in urging me to take another look at Roth IRAs. This follows my previous column, in which I said I was wary of them, partly because I figured I’ll be paying a lower tax rate in retirement than I am while I’m working. “The tax rate is not the issue; it’s the amount of tax you will be paying,” he reminds me.
4h ago
Reuters
South Korea broadband firm sues Netflix after traffic surge from 'Squid Game'
South Korean Internet service provider SK Broadband has sued Netflix to pay for costs from increased network traffic and maintenance work because of a surge of viewers to the U.S. firm's content, an SK spokesperson said on Friday. The move comes after a Seoul court said Netflix should "reasonably" give something in return to the internet service provider for network usage, and multiple South Korean lawmakers have spoken out against content providers who do not pay for network usage despite generating explosive traffic.
2d ago
CBS News Videos
U.S. Postal Service slows delivery and hikes package prices
Beginning October 1, the U.S. Postal Service is slowing down delivery services to cut costs. CBS News transportation correspondent Errol Barnett reports from Washington on the changes, which could have consequences for the millions of Americans who rely on the service to deliver medication or checks.
1d ago
CBS News Videos
USPS hikes prices and slows deliveries
The U.S. Postal Service is increasing prices while slowing down delivery of first-class mail and packages. Kris Van Cleave has more details.
21h ago
Barrons.com
Why Exxon and Other Oil Stocks Are a Better Way to Play a Rally in Natural Gas
Crude producers often pump out considerable gas too. Investors could look at Exxon, Royal Dutch and Marathon..
1d ago
TRENDING
Viral video shows huge alligator eating a smaller alligator: 'It's a freaking dinosaur'
USA TODAY·2 min read
Is the Coronavirus Getting Better at Airborne Transmission?
The New York Times·5 min read
Man who was often seen reading the Bible in a Texas town lured 3 people to his motel room and 'sacrificed' them, say police
INSIDER·2 min read
In Portugal, There Is Virtually No One Left to Vaccinate
The New York Times·6 min read
Rudy Giuliani admits under oath that he got some of his 'evidence' of alleged election fraud from Facebook
Business Insider·3 min read
POPULAR
Chip shortage forces automaker to halt production on KC line
American City Business Journals
Ad
Top tips to help you find your voice as a YouTuber
Ad
•
Blue
Why Congress' focus on semiconductor-specific programs is encouraging the chip industry
Yahoo Finance Video
Malaysia's help needed to ease global chip shortage, Taiwan says
Reuters
Factories struggling as supply constraints hit, costs rise
Reuters
Ad
Place A Bag On Your Car Mirror When Traveling
Ad
•
Novelodge
XPeng Posts Huge Month for Deliveries. EV Sales in China Remain Hot.
Barrons.com
Euro zone factory growth strong in Sept but bottlenecks bite
Reuters
General Motor’s Third Quarter Sales Dip Due to Massive Chip Shortage
FX Empire
Tesla sales continue to surge in the face of chip shortages
Engadget
Petrol crisis: Fuel shortages ‘getting worse’ in London and Southeast as queues cause gridlock outside stations
The Independent
Nebraska suffering from officiating shortage
KETV - Omaha Videos
Nio Doubles Q3 EV Sales Despite Chip Shortage; Xpeng, Li Auto Sales Nearly Triple
Investor's Business Daily
GM reports big drop in 3Q US sales on semiconductor woes
AFP