Samsung to invest $205B in semiconductor, biopharma and telco units by 2023, creating 40,000 jobs
Kate Park@kateparknews / 4:38 PM GMT+6•August 24, 2021
comment Comment
cameraImage Credits: georgeclerk
(opens in a new window)
/ Getty Images
Samsung Group, South Korea’s tech giant, announced on Tuesday that it will invest $205 billion (240 trillion won) in their semiconductor, biopharmaceuticals and telecommunications units over the next three years to enhance its global presence and lead in new industries such as next-generation telecommunication and robotics.
The investment will be led by Samsung affiliates including Samsung Electronics and Samsung Biologics. It also unveiled a mergers and acquisitions plan to fortify its technology and market leadership.
Setting aside $154.3 billion (180 trillion won) for home ground, Samsung expects to create 40,000 new jobs by 2023 through the investment.
This announcement comes days after Samsung Electronics vice chairman Jay Y. Lee was released on parole on 13 August right before South Korea’s Liberation Day. People speculated Samsung would be able to move forward with major investments once he was freed from prison, according to local media reports.
Samsung’s latest investment will be used for semiconductors, biopharmaceuticals and the next-generation telco units, according to the company’s statement.
Samsung Electronics plans to develop advanced process technology and expand the business with artificial intelligence (AI) and data centers for its system semiconductors while it will focus on up-to-date technology such as EUV-based sub14-nanometer DRAM and over 200-layer V-NAND products for the memory business. Samsung had announced in May the company will invest $151 billion in its logic chip and foundry sector, to be the top logic chip maker, by 2030.
Samsung Biologics and Samsung Bioepis plan to establish two new plants, in addition to a fourth factory that is under construction, for expanding the contract development manufacturing organization (CDMO) business, the statement said.
South Korea’s largest conglomerate also will support its ongoing R&D in new technologies and emerging application in areas such as AI and robotics along with the next generation OLED, quantum-dot display and high-energy density batteries development.
More TechCrunch
7 takeaways from Rivian’s IPO filing
Samsung to invest $205B in semiconductor, biopharma and telco units by 2023, creating 40,000 jobs – TechCrunch
South Korea passes ‘Anti-Google law’ bill to curb Google, Apple in-app payment commission
5 questions for venture capital in Q3
Sign up for Newsletters
See all newsletters
(opens in a new window)
Daily
Week in Review
Startups Weekly
Event Updates
Advertising Updates
TechCrunch+ Announcements
TechCrunch+ Events
TechCrunch+ Roundup
Email
Subscribe
facebook
(opens in a new window)
twitter
(opens in a new window)
linkedin
(opens in a new window)
mail
(opens in a new window)
Copy Share Link
Copy
Tags
Asia
Enterprise
Robotics
TC
Samsung
Featured Article
The full-stack approach, but this time sans status quo
Welcome to Startups Weekly, a fresh human-first take on this week’s startup news and trends. To g...
Natasha Mascarenhas
12:04 AM GMT+6•October 3, 2021
This Week in Apps: TikTok shops for advertisers, Microsoft makes app store changes, Apple’s apps get reviews
Sarah Perez
11:30 PM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
Welcome back to This Week in Apps, the weekly TechCrunch series that recaps the latest in mobile OS news, mobile applications and the overall app economy. The app industry continues to grow, with a...
Y Combinator, DAOs and why I am apparently becoming a fun person
Alex Wilhelm
11:02 PM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
Welcome back to The TechCrunch Exchange, a weekly startups-and-markets newsletter for your weekend enjoyment.
China roundup: Tesla supplier CATL to buy Canada’s Millennial Lithium
Rita Liao
10:03 PM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
Hello and welcome back to TechCrunch’s China roundup, a digest of recent events shaping the Chinese tech landscape and what they mean to people in the rest of the world. China’s anti-competit...
Why did the Zoom-Five9 deal eat %#*& and die?
Alex Wilhelm, Danny Crichton
9:00 PM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
Hello friends and welcome to bonus Equity, the sort of podcast episode where you get even more chat for the same low price of zilch. We are here to ensure a high ROI for your podcasting dollar! To ...
Navigating data privacy legislation in a global society
Daniel Barber
8:55 PM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
Data privacy standards would establish a baseline of fairness that spans geographic borders and works for companies at any stage.
What a community means in the modern world of startups
Brian Heater
8:07 PM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
“Community” has grown into one of those buzzy Silicon Valley terms over the years, but long-time advocates explain that the concept is fundamental in entrepreneurship and venture capita...
How to be a growth marketing anti-agency
Miranda Halpern
8:01 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
“As a nerdy kid I loved tech and was fascinated by how business works,” says Cam Sinclair, founder of Australian growth marketing firm Ammo. “I always knew I wanted to find some w...
Chamath Palihapitiya speaks to SPAC concerns, from fees to disclosures to quality
Connie Loizos
6:30 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
It was almost exactly two years ago that a special purpose acquisition vehicle (SPAC) spearheaded by investor Chamath Palihapitiya took public the space tourism company Virgin Galactic. It was the ...
TechCrunch
plus-bold
7 takeaways from Rivian’s IPO filing
Rivian, the electric automaker backed by Amazon, Ford and a cornucopia of heavy-hitting instituti...
Kirsten Korosec, Alex Wilhelm
5:47 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
Strike looms over labor conditions on TV and film productions by big streaming services
Devin Coldewey
4:14 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
A dispute over working conditions at “new media” properties like Netflix, Disney+, Apple TV and others may shut down productions across the country if a strike vote by the union succeed...
Daily Crunch: Nigerian president offers to lift 4-month Twitter ban under certain conditions
Alex Wilhelm
4:10 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
Hello friends and welcome to Daily Crunch, bringing you the most important startup, tech and venture capital news in a single package.
Rivian’s IPO filing is now public
Kirsten Korosec
3:50 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
Electric vehicle startup Rivian, which started deliveries of its R1T pickup truck in September, released its filing to become a publicly traded company in the United States. The S-1 document filed ...
Here’s all 10 companies from IndieBio’s latest New York cohort
Greg Kumparak
2:25 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
Most big accelerators tend to dedicate some of their resources to dauntingly hard science problems and the companies taking them on… but for SOSV’s IndieBio, it’s the primary focu...
The first win: Getting early customers to take a chance with you
Ron Miller
2:13 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
The purpose of your company is to sell your solution and generate revenue, but to do that you require customers. So how do you convince someone to bet on you?
TechCrunch+ roundup: Alternative financing, Web3 adoption, India’s hot Q3 fundraising
Walter Thompson, Annie Saunders
1:27 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
The possibilities of Web3 are fascinating, although I will admit that the notion of public networks where everyone is presumed to be trustworthy is still a bit of a mind-bender.
iOS 15 update to fix Apple Watch unlock bug is here
Cherlynn Low
12:44 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
If you’ve had your iPhone set up to unlock with your Apple Watch and recently upgraded to an iPhone 13, a software bug may have prevented you from continuing to use this. Thankfully, a fix is...
Reid Hoffman on the evolution of ‘blitzscaling’ amid the pandemic
Natasha Mascarenhas
12:30 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
“Blitzscaling itself isn’t the goal,” said Hoffman. “Blitzscaling is being inefficient; it’s spending capital inefficiently and hiring inefficiently; it’s being uncertain about yo...
How four-person startup Luminopia is using TV to treat lazy eye 
Emma Betuel
12:12 AM GMT+6•October 2, 2021
If you’re diagnosed with lazy eye — otherwise known as amblyopia — as a child, there are only a few options at your disposal. You can wear an eye patch, you can take eye drops or you ca...
We don’t just need an AV revolution — we need a design evolution
Matthew Lipka, Bob de Kruyff, Bert Kaufman
11:48 PM GMT+6•October 1, 2021
Building an autonomous vehicle without any changes in design is like building a cell phone with a rotary dial.
About
TechCrunch
Staff
Contact Us
Advertise
Legal
Privacy Policy
Terms of Service
TechCrunch+ Terms
Code of Conduct
International
Japan
FacebookFacebook
(opens in a new window)
TwitterTwitter
(opens in a new window)
YouTubeYouTube
(opens in a new window)
InstagramInstagram
(opens in a new window)
LinkedInLinkedIn
(opens in a new window)
© 2013-2021 Verizon Media.
All rights reserved.
Powered by WordPress VIP
(opens in a new window)
.