Menu icon A vertical stack of three evenly spaced horizontal lines.
Search icon A magnifying glass. It indicates, "Click to perform a search".
Insider logo The word "Insider".
Log in
Subscribe

US MARKETS LOADING...
In the news
HOME CHEVRON ICON IT INDICATES AN EXPANDABLE SECTION OR MENU, OR SOMETIMES PREVIOUS / NEXT NAVIGATION OPTIONS. TECH
Google plans to build its own semiconductor chips to power Chromebook laptops and tablets in 2023, a report says
Anna Cooban Sep 1, 2021, 6:24 PM
Facebook Icon The letter F.
Email icon An envelope. It indicates the ability to send an email.
Google CEO Sundar Pichai. Justin Sullivan via Getty Images
Google plans to build its own semiconductor chips to power its Chromebooks, Nikkei Asia reported. 
The tech giant plans to use its own chips for its Chromebook laptops and computers in 2023. 
Google said in August that it would use its own chips in its Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro smartphones. 
10 Things in Tech: Get the latest tech trends & innovations
Email address
By clicking ‘Sign up’, you agree to receive marketing emails from Insider as well as other partner offers and accept our Terms of Service and Privacy Policy.
Google is planning to build its own semiconductor chips to power its Chromebook laptops and computers from around 2023, Nikkei Asia reported Wednesday.
Unnamed sources close to the matter told Nikkei that the company hopes to use its own chips to run devices that use the Chrome operating system. They will be based on chip blueprints of Arm, a UK chip design company, the sources said. 
Some Chromebooks use Intel's semiconductor chips, according to Intel's website. 
Semiconductor chips are small units, usually made of silicon, which power electronic devices like  smartphones and computers. Multiple industries have faced severe shortages of chips in recent months.
In-house chip development could enable tech companies to build features specific to their products and ease their reliance on suppliers.
Read more: Bank of America names 5 semiconductor stocks to buy for the 2nd half of 2021 — and breaks down why each has 'catch-up potential' after lagging since January
In August, the tech giant announced that it would use its own chips, called Tensor, to power its Pixel 6 and Pixel 6 Pro smartphones. Rick Osterloh, a Google hardware executive, previously told Insider that the chip would enable the Pixel phones to better process AI software. 
Last year, Axios first reported that Google was developing chips for its Pixel phones, and that subsequent versions could be used to run its Chromebook products, but did not specify when. But Nikkei's report on Wednesday said the new Google chips could arrive within the next two years. 
Google was inspired by Apple's development of its own iPhone chips, and its plan to replace Intel's chips with its own custom versions for its Mac computers, two unnamed sources told Nikkei Asia. 
Google did not immediately respond to Insider's request for comment. 
FOR YOU
MARKETS
A young couple accumulated 30 rental properties in less than two years. They share how they got started on their first property and quickly scaled without using their own money.
NOW WATCH:
More: News Google semiconductor chips chips
Chevron icon It indicates an expandable section or menu, or sometimes previous / next navigation options.
* Copyright © 2021 Insider Inc. All rights reserved. Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our
Terms of Service
, 
Privacy Policy
and
Cookies Policy
.
Contact Us
Sitemap
Disclaimer
Accessibility
Commerce Policy
CA Privacy Rights
Coupons
Made in NYC
Jobs
Stock quotes by
finanzen.net
Reprints & Permissions
International Editions:
INTL
AT
AS
AUS
DE
ES
FR
IN
JP
MX
NL
PL
ZA