Welcome to Reuters Legal News beta. Please enjoy and provide us with your feedback as we continue to improve the Reuters Legal News experience.
World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
July 15, 2021
11:04 PM +06
Last Updated 3 months ago
Intellectual Property
Legal Industry
Purdue University sues STMicroelectronics over semiconductor patents
By Blake Brittain
2 minute read
A logo is pictured on the factory of STMicroelectronics in Plan-les-Oautes near Geneva, Switzerland, December 6, 2016. REUTERS/Denis Balibouse
Summary
Companies
Law firms
Related documents
Devices used in renewable energy products accused of infringing
Semiconductor technology created by Purdue professor, student
The company and law firm names shown above are generated automatically based on the text of the article. We are improving this feature as we continue to test and develop in beta. We welcome feedback, which you can provide using the feedback tab on the right of the page.
(Reuters) - Purdue University has sued STMicroelectronics, one of Europe's largest chip makers, in West Texas federal court alleging that its transistors infringe the school's semiconductor patents.
The Wednesday complaint, filed in U.S. District Judge Alan Albright's patent-heavy Waco court, says that ST's metal-oxide semiconductor field-effect transistors (MOSFETs), used in solar HVAC systems, car charging stations, and other renewable-energy products, infringe two of Purdue's patents.
Purdue didn't immediately respond to a request for comment, and its attorney Mark Siegmund of Shore Chan declined to comment. ST also declined to comment.
MOSFETs are generally used in electronics to control and amplify the flow of electricity. Purdue's patents relate to semiconductors for high-voltage power applications and innovations in MOSFET technology created by former Purdue professor James Cooper and his then-student Asmita Saha.
Geneva, Switzerland-based ST makes MOSFETs that allegedly infringe these patents. Purdue says ST has been aware of the alleged infringement since April, when the university outlined it in a letter to the company.
The complaint also says ST induces others to infringe through their distribution and sale of infringing products and by instructing end users how to use them in an infringing way.
The case is Trustees of Purdue Univ. v. STMicroelectronics NV, U.S. District Court for the Western District of Texas, No. 6:21-cv-00727.
For Purdue: Mark Siegmund of Shore Chan
For ST: not available
Blake Brittain
Blake Brittain reports on intellectual property law, including patents, trademarks, copyrights and trade secrets. Reach him at blake.brittain@thomsonreuters.com
More from Reuters
SCOTUS oral arguments go hybrid this term
U.S. COVID cases down 15% from last week -CDC Director
Some Afghans quit U.S. bases before resettlement
CA to require COVID vaccines for schoolchildren
In new term, SCOTUS to weigh abortion and guns
Merck pill raises hope of preventing COVID deaths
U.S. COVID-19 death toll hits 700,000
NYC schools' vaccine mandate allowed for now
U.S. CDC urges COVID vaccines for pregnant women
'We need to fix it' - conservatorships after Britney Spears case
Latest in Legal
United States
U.S. Supreme Court's Sotomayor allows New York school vaccine mandate
United States
Biden administration asks judge to halt strict Texas abortion law
United States
U.S. antitrust official says competition in labor markets a top concern
Business
Google security official mocked gay staffer, lawsuit alleges
Sign up for The Daily Docket
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest Reuters legal news and headlines delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Industry Insight
Industry Insight
How Nationwide’s law department fosters a culture of diversity & inclusion
September 29, 2021
Industry Insight
In-House Counsel Q&A with Marc Shelley of Anheuser-Busch InBev
September 28, 2021
Industry Insight
Leadership tactics that law firms can use to win the talent wars
September 28, 2021
Industry Insight
Carlyle Group CEO Kewsong Lee discusses the ongoing evolution of private-equity markets
September 28, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved