Skip to main content
SUBSCRIBE
Most Popular
Currie Parkway Bridge closed until further notice
North Pole Express is back for 2021, tickets on sale today
History in the making: BCW drubs Chemics
Midland County COVID Report — Oct. 1, 2021
Bakus shines as Chargers pull away from Heritage
Midland planning commission discusses apartments, new street
Long standing property dispute leads to "nonverbal gestures" - Midland...
Midland Co. Sheriff's Office investigating death of 7-month-old boy
NEWS
Hemlock Semiconductor announces leadership transition
Arabinda ‘AB’ Ghosh to join as COO on Sept. 27 and transition to CEO at end of year, succeeding Mark Bassett
Midland Daily News
Sep. 27, 2021
Comments
3
Hemlock Semiconductor Operations (HSC), the country’s largest manufacturer of hyper-pure polysilicon used in solar panels and semiconductors, today announced a leadership transition that will begin with the appointment of Arabinda “AB” Ghosh as Chief Operating Officer on Sept. 27.
Current Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Mark Bassett plans to retire from the role at year’s end, and Ghosh will assume his responsibilities as chairman and CEO at that time. Bassett will continue to support the company with its growth initiatives and plans to stay involved in the local community. Ghosh joins HSC after a distinguished career as a top executive with Akzo Nobel and Nouryon, global leaders in specialty chemical and coatings manufacturing, where he led business units with revenues of up to $2.4 billion, more than 50 plant locations in multiple countries and more than 6,000 employees.
Bassett has led HSC as CEO since 2016, when HSC became a stand-alone company. Bassett previously had a 26-year career at Dow and Union Carbide.
“AB Ghosh is exceptionally well-qualified to serve as HSC’s next leader and brings a strong portfolio of executive leadership experience and a 30-year track record of success in management and finance roles to his new position,” Bassett stated. “HSC is focused on competitiveness and excellence in the hyper-pure polysilicon market and also seeks to be a sustainable company that energizes and connects our world. AB believes in the vision and in the company culture that has gotten us here. His diversified skill set in managing complex market portfolios and delivering against financial and operational metrics will be an important asset to the company as we continue to strengthen HSC’s position as a global market leader.”
Ghosh began his career as an internal audit manager with Deloitte in England and shortly thereafter joined Courtaulds, a UK-based manufacturer of fabric, clothing, artificial fibers and chemicals, in a group finance role. When the company was acquired by Akzo Nobel in 1998, he quickly moved up the ranks of executive leadership, taking on positions with progressive responsibility for global business units until the company’s specialty chemicals business was sold to The Carlyle Group in 2018 and rebranded as Nouryon. He continued as president and managing director, Global Surface Chemistry for Nouryon until departing at the end of 2019 to pursue consulting opportunities with several of the world’s leading private equity firms.
“I am honored to join the Hemlock family during such an exciting time for the company,” Ghosh stated. “Thanks to Mark’s extraordinary leadership in standing up HSC as an independent company, we are now in a position to leverage tremendous growth opportunities in the domestic market and around the world, driven by a clear and compelling vision based on core principles of quality, sustainability and innovation. I am excited about becoming Hemlock’s next chief executive and believe our company is well-positioned for the future.”
Ghosh and his wife, Tracy, are in the process of relocating from Georgia to their new home in Michigan. The couple has two adult sons. He completed his education in England and received his chartered accountancy from the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England & Wales.
NEWSLETTER SIGNUPS
Newsletters: Get your news in your inbox
MORE NEWS
NEWS
Loose 'stunned' at being named Michigan Realtor of Year    
NEWS
Midland mother grateful for heart care from local medical...
NEWS
Chippewa Nature Center among 2021 DNR Wildlife Habitat...
Written By
Midland Daily News
VIEW COMMENTS
MORE NEWS
Loose 'stunned' at being named Michigan Realtor of Year    
Midland's Rick Loose was "stunned" when he was named Michigan's Realtor of the Year — even though...
Midland mother grateful for heart care from local medical center
Lindsey Read-Smith, attorney and small business owner in Shepherd, had a smooth pregnancy and...
Chippewa Nature Center among 2021 DNR Wildlife Habitat Grant...
The Michigan Department of Natural Resources recently announced the recipients of its 2021...
Midland’s Tridge stands tall over the decades
Did you know that the Tridge's original arches weighed more than 11,000 tons total? Once they...
Do You Speak English? Work a USA job from home in Bangladesh
Work from Home | Search Ads
|
Sponsored
Work For a UK Company, Live in Bangladesh
UK Jobs | Search Ads
|
Sponsored
Buying Bangalore Properties Might be Easier Than You Think
Property in Bangalore | Search Ads
|
Sponsored
Work a USA job from home in Bangladesh
Jobs in the USA | Search Ads
|
Sponsored
Online Jobs in the USA May Pay More Than You Think
USA Jobs Online
|
Sponsored
RETURN TO TOP
ABOUT
Privacy Notice
Your California Privacy Rights
Interest Based Ads
Terms of Use
Careers
CONTACT
Customer Service
Newsroom Contacts
Advertise
CONNECT
e-Edition
Archives
Facebook
Twitter - News
Twitter - Sports
Instagram
©2021 Hearst