World
Business
Legal
MarketsBreakingviews
Technology
More
Sign In
Register
June 30, 2021
7:23 PM +06
Last Updated 4 months ago
Asia Pacific
Thailand offers perks to draw semiconductor, digital investments
Reuters
2 minute read
BANGKOK, June 30 (Reuters) - Thailand has offered incentives to attract investment in the growing semiconductor, digital and packaging industries to meet rising global demand amid coronavirus outbreaks, the country's investment agency said on Wednesday.
Front-end capital and technology-intensive manufacturing such as wafer fabrication will be given 10-year tax holidays, the Board of Investment (BOI) said in a statement.
Advanced integrated circuits, IC (integrated circuit) substrate and printed circuit board projects with machinery investment of at least 1.5 billion baht ($46.8 million) will be offered an eight-year tax break, it said.
"The semiconductor industry has experienced demand hike and companies are looking for more resilience in the global supply chain," BOI head Duangjai Asawachintachit said.
Companies applying for BOI privileges for software development, digital services platform or digital content will also be eligible for eight-year tax holidays, the BOI said.
Enhanced investment incentives will be offered to so-called smart packaging and environmentally friendly packaging, including recycled materials, it said.
($1 = 32.05 baht)
Reporting by Kitiphong Thaichareon Writing by Satawasin Staporncharnchai; Editing by Martin Petty
Our Standards: The Thomson Reuters Trust Principles.
More from Reuters
Local leaders honored for sheltering Burkina Faso's displaced
Sudan situation 'improving': World Bank president
Five stories you need to know about today
Australia's NSW premier resigns over corruption case
Kabul teacher and student long for return to class
Japanese princess to marry despite criticism
Art created by Muhammad Ali to sell at auction
10-foot tall 'Squid Game' doll in Manila
U.N. decries Ethiopian expulsions over Tigray
Images of September
Read Next
Middle East
Shipwrecks of World War I are a seabed museum in Turkey
Asia Pacific
Philippines' Duterte says he is retiring from politics, but not everyone is convinced
United Kingdom
The battle for British supermarket group Morrisons
Asia Pacific
New Zealand reports 27 COVID-19 cases amid anti-lockdown protests
Sign up for our newsletter
Subscribe for our daily curated newsletter to receive the latest exclusive Reuters coverage delivered to your inbox.
Sign up
Asia Pacific
Asia Pacific · October 2, 2021 · 3:19 PM +06
Bangladesh vows ‘stern action’ against killers of Rohingya leader
Bangladesh's foreign minister vowed "stern action" on Saturday against the killers of Rohingya refugee leader Mohib Ullah as calls grew to investigate his shooting.
Asia Pacific
Afghan pavilion at Dubai world fair stays shut after Taliban takeover
October 2, 2021
Asia Pacific
Taiwan says further 20 Chinese air force planes entered its air defence zone
October 2, 2021
Asia Pacific
Afghan girls stuck at home, waiting for Taliban plan to re-open schools
October 1, 2021
Asia Pacific
Philippines' Duterte says he is retiring from politics, but not everyone is convinced
October 2, 2021
Latest
Home
Browse
World
Business
Legal
Markets
Breakingviews
Technology
Investigations
Lifestyle
Media
Videos
Pictures
Graphics
About Reuters
About Reuters
Careers
Reuters News Agency
Brand Attribution Guidelines
Reuters Leadership
Reuters Fact Check
Reuters Diversity Report
Stay Informed
Download the App
Newsletters
Information you can trust
Reuters, the news and media division of Thomson Reuters, is the world’s largest multimedia news provider, reaching billions of people worldwide every day. Reuters provides business, financial, national and international news to professionals via desktop terminals, the world's media organizations, industry events and directly to consumers.
Follow Us
Thomson Reuters Products
Westlaw
Build the strongest argument relying on authoritative content, attorney-editor expertise, and industry defining technology.
Onesource
The most comprehensive solution to manage all your complex and ever-expanding tax and compliance needs.
Checkpoint
The industry leader for online information for tax, accounting and finance professionals.
Refinitiv Products
Eikon
Information, analytics and exclusive news on financial markets - delivered in an intuitive desktop and mobile interface.
Refinitiv Data Platform
Access to real-time, reference, and non-real time data in the cloud to power your enterprise.
World-Check
Screen for heightened risk individual and entities globally to help uncover hidden risks in business relationships and human networks.
Advertise With Us
Advertising Guidelines
Cookies
Terms of Use
Privacy
Corrections
Site Feedback
All quotes delayed a minimum of 15 minutes. See here for a complete list of exchanges and delays.
© 2021 Reuters. All rights reserved