Set weather
Subscribe now
Sign in
Fact-forward news for readers like you who want to know more. Subscribe today.
SUBSCRIBER EXCLUSIVE
NY officials grow optimistic about luring semiconductor chip plant to Clay, lawmaker says
Updated: Oct. 01, 2021, 9:59 a.m. | Published: Sep. 29, 2021, 2:05 p.m.
Onondaga County is marketing its White Pine Commerce Park in Clay to semiconductor manufacturers. The 1,250-acre site is in a prime spot near high-capacity water, power and sewage lines needed for a chip plant. Rick Moriarty | rmoriarty@syracuse.com
Facebook Share
Twitter Share
250
shares
By Mark Weiner | mweiner@syracuse.com
Onondaga County believes it is close to striking a deal to land a semiconductor chip manufacturer that would invest billions of dollars to open a plant in Clay and employ 3,000 to 5,000 people, a state lawmaker said.
The chip manufacturers are expected to decide by the end of 2021 whether they want to build at White Pine Commerce Park in Clay, Stirpe said.
U.S. Sen. Charles Schumer, D-N.Y., said in April that three of the world’s major semiconductor makers told him that White Pine is in the running to host a chip plant.
McMahon said last year that the site was a finalist in 2019 for a $12 billion semiconductor plant to be built by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Co., one of the world’s top semiconductor makers.
Now the global chip shortage, worsened by the coronavirus pandemic, has renewed interest among semiconductor makers to build factories in the United States. The chips are used in computers, smartphones, cars and household appliances.
Schumer, the Senate majority leader, led a bipartisan group of senators in June who approved an unprecedented investment of $52 billion in federal incentives for chip manufacturers to open new domestic plants.
OCIDA voted 5-0 to use its eminent domain powers to finish acquiring the final 100 acres needed to expand the park to 1,250 acres.
He said the state wants to avoid a repeat of the backlash to government subsidies that prompted Amazon to cancel its plans in February 2019 for a corporate campus in New York City that would have employed 25,000 people.
Got a tip, comment or story idea? Contact Mark Weiner anytime by: Email | Twitter | Facebook | 571-970-3751
Registration on or use of this site constitutes acceptance of our , , and Your California Privacy Rights (User Agreement updated 1/1/21. Privacy Policy and Cookie Statement updated 5/1/2021).
Cookies Settings

Community Rules apply to all content you upload or otherwise submit to this site.
Ad Choices