Skip to main content
Browse all
Astronomy and space
Atomic and molecular
Biophysics and bioengineering
Business and innovation
Condensed matter
Culture, history and society
Diversity and inclusion
Education and outreach
Environment and energy
Ethics
Instrumentation and measurement
Materials
Mathematics and computation
Medical physics
Optics and photonics
Particle and nuclear
Personalities
Policy and funding
Projects and facilities
Publishing
Quantum
ARTICLE TYPES
Analysis
Blog
Careers
Events
Features
Innovation showcases
Interviews
News
Opinion and reviews
Podcast
Research updates
Videos
Webinars
COLLECTIONS
JOBS
EXPLORE PHYSICS WORLD
About us
Our team
Our portfolio
Advertising
Contact us
Sign in
Register
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on LinkedIn
Watch us on Youtube
RSS Feed
Jobs
Sign in
Register
Toggle Menu
Open Search Dialog
Magazine Latest
People
Impact
Collections
Audio and video
TOPICS


semiconductors and electronics
SEMICONDUCTORS AND ELECTRONICS RESEARCH UPDATE
New theory could help optimize defects in semiconductors
10 Sep 2021 Isabelle Dumé
Material optimization: Strain can be applied to overcome doping limitations in semiconductors. (Courtesy: B Huang)
A new universal theory and three basic rules for how defects in semiconductors behave in response to strain could lead to improvements in the electronic properties of a wide range of semiconducting materials. The work, which began with the discovery of a key physical quantity that describes how a semiconductor’s volume changes in the presence of impurities, could help researchers determine the “right” amount of strain to apply, and thus optimize the effects of these impurities.
Defect-induced volume changes
Most materials contain impurities, or dopants, that are either intentionally or unintentionally introduced into the system – for example, during the growth of a crystal. These impurities induce volume changes in their immediate vicinity, thus producing a strain in the material.
In the latest work, researchers led by Bing Huang of Beijing Normal University’s Department of Physics and the Beijing Computational Science Research Center demonstrate that the extent of these volume changes, Δ𝑉, depends on whether the defect is positively- or negatively-charged. More precisely, Huang and colleagues show that volume increases for more negatively-charged defects and decreases for more positively-charged ones; in other words, Δ𝑉 is positive when an electron is added to the defect site and negative when an electron is removed from it.
Three basic rules
To further understand (and therefore predict) the different strain-dependent doping behaviours of semiconductors, Huang and colleagues developed three basic rules to describe how strain affects the properties of semiconductor defects.
The first rule describes how a defect’s formation energy changes in response to strain. In a material under strain, the researchers found that the total energy difference between a neutral semiconductor and a negatively (or positively) charged semiconductor that accommodates extra electrons (or holes) in the material’s valence band will depend on the sign and size of Δ𝑉. This energy difference will either increase or decrease superlinearly as a function of the strain, and the rate at which it does so will be proportional to Δ𝑉. If Δ𝑉 is close to zero, the energy difference will be a parabolic function of strain.
The second rule describes how strain changes the Fermi energy level (a hypothetical energy level that has a 50% probability of containing an electron) when the defect charge state changes. According to this rule, a compressive strain will shift this transition energy level up, while a tensile strain will shift it down.
READ MORE
First-principles calculations shed light on semiconductor defects
The third rule describes how strain changes the position of the “pinning” Fermi level. This is an intrinsic effect occurring in semiconductor systems in which the Fermi level is far from the electronic band edge. This effect can significantly limit the doping-induced electron and hole densities, and dramatically degrade the performance of devices like solar cells and transistors. Huang and colleagues’ third rule describes how compressive strain will shift the absolute pinning Fermi level up in energy and a tensile strain will shift it down in energy.
Together, Huang says that these rules could help researchers estimate the “right” strain to apply to a semiconductor to optimize the doping effect of impurities or defects. “We have known for some time that strain can be used to tune doping effects in semiconductors, but a fundamental and general theory to understand the diverse strain-induced changes of different point defects in semiconductors was lacking until now,” he tells Physics World.
Full details of the research are reported in Chinese Physics Letters.
Want to read more?
Register to unlock all the content on the site
E-MAIL ADDRESS
Register
Isabelle Dumé is a contributing editor to Physics World
Semiconductor Science and Technology
Publishing cutting-edge research on the physical properties of semiconductors and their applications.
READ PREVIOUS
ULTRACOLD MATTER RESEARCH UPDATE
Bose–Einstein condensates hit record low temperature
READ NEXT
BIOMEDICAL DEVICES RESEARCH UPDATE
Robotic insulin delivery via smart ingestible capsules
Discover more from Physics World
SEMICONDUCTORS AND ELECTRONICS RESEARCH UPDATE
‘Stop-motion movie of atoms’ reveals short-lived state in nanoscale switch
2D MATERIALS RESEARCH UPDATE
Monolayer strain sensor sets new record
CULTURE, HISTORY AND SOCIETY PODCAST
Tackling the big questions in physics with Jim Al-Khalili, how a physicist worked out why dinosaurs went extinct
Related jobs
SWITZERLAND | CERN
Electrical Engineer for Superconducting Magnets Development (TE-MSC-SMT-2021-93-LD)
SWITZERLAND | CERN
Test and Maintenance Technical Engineer (SY-EPC-OMS-2021-101-LD)
SWITZERLAND | CERN
Electrical Engineer/Applied Physicist (TE-MSC-TM-2021-76-LD)
Related events
SEMICONDUCTORS AND ELECTRONICS | EXHIBITION
The Engineering Design Show 2021
19—20 October 2021 | Coventry, UK
BUSINESS AND INNOVATION | EXHIBITION
The Engineering Design Show
19—20 October 2021 | Coventry, UK
SEMICONDUCTORS AND ELECTRONICS | CONFERENCE
8th International Conference on Antennas and Electromagnetic Systems (AES 2021)
16—19 November 2021 | Marrakesh, Morocco
EXPLORE PHYSICS WORLD
About us
Our team
Our portfolio
Advertising
Contact us
Feedback
Sign in
Register
MORE INFORMATION
Institute of Physics
Join the Institute
Modern Slavery Act
Privacy and Cookies
IOP Publishing
Copyright
Terms and Conditions
Disclaimer
OUR MISSION
Physics World represents a key part of IOP Publishing's mission to communicate world-class research and innovation to the widest possible audience. The website forms part of the Physics World portfolio, a collection of online, digital and print information services for the global scientific community.
Follow us on Facebook
Follow us on Twitter
Follow us on LinkedIn
Watch us on Youtube
RSS Feed
BACK TO TOP