LOGIN
HELP
PREMIUM SERVICES
Latest Stock Picks
Our Services
Investing Basics
Stock Market
Retirement
About Us

Following Apple's Lead, Google to Take Chip Production In-House
Some prefer to let the chips fall as they may. That doesn't include Google any longer. Following in the footsteps of Silicon Valley rival Apple,...
The Daily Upside
(TheDailyUpside)
Sep 1, 2021 at 10:00PM
Author Bio
For more crisp and insightful business and economic news, subscribe to The Daily Upside newsletter. It's completely free and we guarantee you'll learn something new every day.
Some prefer to let the chips fall as they may. That doesn't include Google any longer.
Following in the footsteps of Silicon Valley rival Apple, the company plans to start using its own in-house CPU chips in its line of laptops and tablets by 2023.
Demanding Supply
The ongoing shortage of computer chips, also called semiconductors, started last year when global shutdowns caused a production drought of the materials used in chips, just as chip-needy electronic devices were flying off the shelves with people relegated to their living rooms.
The resulting supply shortage has hammered many industries, automakers in particular. Volkswagen, General Motors, Toyota, and Nissan are among those that have halted or slashed production. Over in the world of consumer electronics, Apple had to stagger its release of iPhones, and Microsoft and Sony haven't been able to churn out enough Xbox and PlayStation consoles to meet demand.
Apple's decision to sever a 15-year relationship with Intel to begin fashioning in-house chips now appears rather prescient, allowing the company to dodge further delays. But semiconductor production is also an extraordinarily pricey undertaking that only the richest of companies can dream of:
Designing a cutting-edge chip costs about $500 million, according to Bain & Co. partner Peter Hanbury.
The list of companies currently willing to take on that level of expense is in the single digits: Google, Amazon, Facebook, Microsoft, Tesla, Baidu, and Alibaba are working on in-house chips, and they'll each likely need to battle established giants Intel, Nvidia, and Qualcomm for production capacity.
Selling Point: Google will need to produce plenty of its own supply to keep up; Chromebook sales are expected to grow 34% this year to 43 million units.
Mine Your Own Business: Earlier this week, Russian gold miner Polymetal said its industry is likely to be squeezed by the chip shortage, with capital spending rising 25% this year due to the rising costs of procuring equipment — like trucks, loaders, and drill rigs — that all need chips.
5X your investing knowledge with this simple move
We've partnered with The Daily Upside to bring investing content and insights to your inbox five days a week -- for free! No matter what you're investing strategy, every investor needs timely insights to help navigate any type of market.
The Daily Upside cuts through the noise to bring you a curated daily email that gives you insights on the three biggest financial stories of the day.
Get Access Now
Motley Fool Returns
STOCK ADVISOR
S&P 500
624%
134%
Join Stock Advisor
Discounted offers are only available to new members. Stock Advisor will renew at the then current list price. Stock Advisor list price is $199 per year.
Stock Advisor launched in February of 2002. Returns as of 10/06/2021.
Don't miss out. Market closes in…
00
Hours
:
07
Minutes
:
56
Seconds
Cumulative Growth of a $10,000 Investment in Stock Advisor
Calculated by Time-Weighted Return
RELATED ARTICLES
A Startup Wants to Open a 24-Hours-a-Day, 7-Days-a-Week Stock Market
Major Hotels Are Going All-In On All-Inclusive Resorts
Google's DeepMind Artificial Intelligence Unit Is No Longer a Money Loser
PepsiCo, inc (PEP) Q3 2021 Earnings Call Transcript
Treasury Officially Mulls a U.S. Digital Dollar
Making the world smarter, happier, and richer.
Facebook
Twitter
Linked In
Pinterest
YouTube
Instagram
Tiktok
© 1995 - 2021 The Motley Fool. All rights reserved.
Market data powered by Xignite.
About the Motley Fool
About Us
Careers
Culture Blog
Research
Press Inquiries
Contact
Advertise
Our Services
Stock Advisor
Rule Breakers
Rule Your Retirement
The Ascent
All Star Money
Millionacres
All Services
Around the Globe
Fool UK
Fool Australia
Fool Canada
Fool Deutschland
Free Tools
CAPS Stock Ratings
Discussion Boards
Calculators
Terms of Use Privacy Policy Accessibility Policy Copyright, Trademark and Patent Information Terms and Conditions Do Not Sell My Personal Information