ADVERTISER DISCLOSURE
MONEY / BUSINESS
Samsung Delivers Strong Q2 Profit Gains As Chip Shortage Hits OLED Smartphones and TVs
KENGKAT / Getty Images/iStockphoto
Heavy demand for memory chips helped Samsung Electronics deliver stellar second-quarter results, though a global chip shortage could complicate things further down the road.
See: Chip Shortage Drives Record-Level Price Increases With No End in Sight
Find: Chipageddon Could Last Until 2023, According to Analysts
The South Korean electronics giant said it posted a 53% year-over-year profit gain for the quarter, Nikkei Asia reported on Wednesday. Its Q2 revenue grew 19% from the previous year. Both figures beat consensus analyst estimates.
Samsung won’t offer any further details until it releases full earnings data later this month. But analysts say the company’s semiconductor division likely drove the Q2 gains, thanks to rising chip prices caused by a shortage of supply. According to estimates from Japanese financial firm Nomura, DRAM prices during the second quarter might have risen more than 20% from the prior year.
In a report before Samsung’s guidance, Nomura analyst CW Chung said Samsung could continue to benefit from the continuing need for companies to procure chips.
The wild card is how long the company can keep up with the demand that is already straining its manufacturing capacity.
As the Financial Times reported Tuesday, the global chip shortage comes just as smartphones are delivering sharper images to consumers thanks to next-generation screens that use organic LED (OLED) technology rather than liquid crystal displays. Screens that use OLED are thinner, offer sharper colors and higher resolution, and also require less energy. Nearly half of current smartphones use these displays, as do most high-end TVs.
More From Your Money
But OLED requires specialized chips – and those chips are in very short supply right now. Until a few years ago the chips were only used in Samsung phones, which means Samsung was also the dominant supplier of the chips. It was later joined by Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing Company (TSMC).
See: The Supply Chain is Broken Again for Chicken, Ketchup and Computer Chips
Find: Supply Chain Disruptions Expected to Impact Office Supplies, Clothing and Other Back-to-School Necessities
But the market has since expanded considerably. Nowadays both companies are overwhelmed with orders for specialized chips from automakers, smartphone manufacturers and server manufacturers. Sales volume hit 100 billion chips in April.
Even lower-end chips are in short supply.
“The shortage is not just about high-end chips anymore,” Nomura’s Chung told FT. “The shortfall now affects chips of all sizes and levels of sophistication, including chips critical for OLED display production.”
More From GOBankingRates
31 Days of Living Richer
We Asked, You Answered: The 2021 U.S. Small Business Spotlight
What It Means To Live a Truly Rich Life and How To Achieve It
How To Keep Your Financial Planning On Track in 2021
About the Author
Vance Cariaga
Vance Cariaga is a London-based writer, editor and journalist who previously held staff positions at Investor’s Business Daily, The Charlotte Business Journal and The Charlotte Observer. His work also appeared in Charlotte Magazine, Street & Smith’s Sports Business Journal and Business North Carolina magazine. He holds a B.A. in English from Appalachian State University and studied journalism at the University of South Carolina. His reporting earned awards from the North Carolina Press Association, the Green Eyeshade Awards and AlterNet. A native of North Carolina who also writes fiction, Vance’s short story, “Saint Christopher,” placed second in the 2019 Writer’s Digest Short Short Story Competition. Two of his short stories appear in With One Eye on the Cows, an anthology published by Ad Hoc Fiction in 2019. His debut novel, Voodoo Hideaway, will be published in 2021 by Atmosphere Press.
By Vance Cariaga
July 7, 2021
Related Articles
Nick Saban, Lincoln Riley And The Highest-Paid College Football Coaches In America
Grocery Store Shortages Comparable to 2020 -- Are You Prepared for Lack of Supply During the Holidays?
Here's How Much You Need To Earn To Be 'Rich' in Every State
Lesser-Known Credit Card Perks You Should Be Taking Advantage Of
$50,000 a Year Is How Much an Hour?
Check Out Our Free Newsletters!
Every day, get fresh ideas on how to save and make money and achieve your financial goals.
Subscribe Now
In Case You Missed It
How Much Money Do YouTubers Make?
By Cynthia Bowman
Highest-earning YouTubers in 2021 are currently making millions. But how much do YouTubers really make? See how some regular people generate cash on YouTube. If you're wondering "how much money do you make on YouTube", here's a breakdown based on your audience and how the top stars break the glass ceiling.
READ MORE
Cost of Living: What’s Included & How’s It Calculated?
By Andrew Lisa
Cost of living is an unofficial measurement of how much money you have to spend to buy the goods and services you need depending on where you live. It varies from town to town, city to city, state to...
READ MORE
How Much Do You Pay a Friend for Pet-Sitting and Other Household Favors When You’re Out of Town?
By Laura Woods
You're beyond excited to be going on vacation, but you need someone to handle at least one of your responsibilities at home while you're away. Thankfully, a friend or family member has agreed to watch...
READ MORE
22 Side Gigs That Can Make You Richer Than a Full-Time Job
By Gabrielle Olya
READ MORE
Biggest Boomtowns in Every State
By Joel Anderson
Boomtown. The word sounds like it's describing an explosion -- and in a way, it is. Boomtowns are considered the fastest-growing cities in America due to rapid...
READ MORE
The Best Reddit Hacks To Save Money
By Sam DiSalvo
Whether you're looking for ways to save on vacation or trim your budget, you'll find a wealth of information on Reddit. But how can you tell what's legit and what's a little less realistic? If you're...
READ MORE
Infrastructure Bill: What Could Broadband Internet Provisions Mean For You?
By Dawn Allcot
The massive infrastructure bill previously passed by the Senate and now under debate in the House includes a large provision to expand high-speed internet access across the country, specifically in...
READ MORE
The 25 Most Profitable Companies — and How Much They Make
By Jordan Rosenfeld
It's easy to assume that a big company, especially one that is a household name, might also be incredibly profitable, but that's not true for every company....
READ MORE
    From the Web
Powered by ZergNet
Where Mike Pence's Money Comes From Might Surprise You
This Is The Clearest Picture Of Trump's Finances We've Seen Yet
Where Nancy Pelosi's Money Really Comes From
Joy Behar Is A Wealthy Woman, But Where Did It All Come From?
Sponsored Links by Zergnet
About Us Contact Us Press Contributors Calculators Sitemap Terms of Use Privacy Policy Advertiser Disclosure Email Opt Out Careers Content Marketing Solutions
© 2021 GOBankingRates. All Right Reserved.
Advertiser Disclosure: Many of the offers appearing on this site are from advertisers from which this website receives compensation for being listed here. This compensation may impact how and where products appear on this site (including, for example, the order in which they appear). These offers do not represent all available deposit, investment, loan or credit products.
Open a New Account
Gen Z: The Future of Finances
Banking
Investing
Retirement
Credit Cards
Live Richer™
Reviews