CORONAVIRUS
FOOTBALL
NEWS
SHOWBIZ
TV
SPORT
LIFE & STYLE
TECH
TRAVEL
PICS
IN YOUR AREA
TECH
Blow for PS5 and Nintendo Switch production as consoles hit by chip shortage
The shortage could affect production of the popular new console until 2023, putting even more pressure on the already stretched PS5 demand which has already been plagued by supply problems
SHARE
BY KIT ROBERTS
16:46, 4 SEP 2021UPDATED16:47, 4 SEP 2021
The chips are used to regulate power supply(Image: Getty Images)
Computing giant Toshiba has issued a warning that it may not be able to meet demand for chips until 2023 – putting PS5 production in peril.
The supply issue will affect several big names which use the chips, including those who manufacture next-gen consoles such as the PS5 and Nintendo Switch.
Gamers looking to purchase Sony's latest console in the PS5 have already faced a deluge of problems, including supply simply not being able to meet demand, as well as issues with bots buying out stock to be sold at extortionate rates on sites like eBay.
The chips in question regulate the power supply, which are used in almost any electronic device more complicated than a hairdryer.
The Playstation 5 is one of the products severely affected by the shortage
RELATED ARTICLES
Joe Biden tells FBI to release files on 9/11 investigation – and possible Saudi links
Bouncer sucker punches dad in horrifying CCTV and leaves him in coma
They are so commonly used that in the past they have been treated less like a component and more like a commodity.
In another blow for gamers eager to get hold of a next-gen console, it is video game console manufacturers who are particularly badly hit by the shortage.
Even production of the previous generation console the PS4 has been affected by the shortage.
Takeshi Kamebuchi, a director at Toshiba who specialises in semi-conductor production, told thegamer.com: "The supply of chips will remain very tight until at least September next year.
The Nintendo Switch has also been badly hit by the shortage(Image: Future Publishing)
“In some cases, we may find some customers not being fully served until 2023.
“Game console makers are among the customers making the strongest demands and I’m sincerely sorry for their frustration as none of them have a 100% satisfaction."
The problem is even urgent enough to warrant intervention from the highest office, with US President Joe Biden issuing an executive order earlier this year to increase domestic production of semiconductors in the USA.
Power chips have become so sought after that Hong Kong truck drivers have even taken to smuggling them over drugs, as the chips are worth more.
To stay up to date with all the latest news, make sure you sign up to one of our newsletters here.
RELATED ARTICLES
Outrage as wrestling star MJF asks ‘is it too late to abort?’ in reply to snap of fan
Parkland school shooter who slaughtered 17 people can't be called an 'animal' at trial
Follow Dailystar.co.uk
Facebook
Twitter
Comment
MORE ON
Technology
NEWS
SPORT
SHOWBIZ
TV
TECH
LIFE & STYLE
TRAVEL
PICS
FOLLOW US
© 2021 a Reach plc subsidiary